SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Background: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Request for Uniformization of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 5019029-70.2022.4.04.7003/ PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR

It is a Federal Law Interpretation Uniformization request made by the author face to the judgment of the 1st Court of Appeal of Paraná which, reforming the judgment of partial proceedings, did not recognize the right to the collection of the IRPJ and CSLL with reduced fees, as regards the provision of hospital services.

The applicant entered with this declaratory action with a request for repeat of indebit objectivating declaring his right to collect the federal taxes of IRPJ and CSLL on the reduced calculation basis, which is 8% and 12%, respectively, instead of the 32% as it is taxed, since it meets all the requirements established by article 15, §1, III, subparagraph “a” and article 20, III, both of Law No. 9.249/95, now pacified by the Repeative Theme 217 of STJ (originated from REsp 1.116.399/BA).

For the purposes of paying the taxes with the reduced payments, the expression 'hospitalary services', constituted in article 15, § 1nd, section III, of Law 9.249/95, must be interpreted in an objective manner (i.e., in the perspective of the activity carried out by the taxpayer), and should be considered hospital services 'those that are linked to the activities developed by the hospitals, directed to the promotion of health', so that 'in the rule, but not necessarily, are provided within the hospital establishment, excluding the simple medical consultations, activity that is not identified with those provided in the hospital, but in the medical consultations'.

For better understanding of the controversy, relevant traces of the conductor vote of the appealed judgment are transcribed : In the case, it is noted, first, that the corporate framework is formed exclusively by doctors (Clemente Aparecido de Souza and Cleusa Kimie Koike Felipe), who, therefore, exercise the same end activity of the society. Also, it is provided in the social contract of the author that only the first partner will exercise the administration of the society, making jus, due to that exercise, to the receipt of a monthly remuneration as pro-labore , "which value will be freely convened" among the only societies.

Moreover, according to the information submitted by the Union and not contested by the author, the company does not count with any employee in its framework of employees, indicating that all the final activity is carried out in a personal way by the partners. Moreover, the service tax notes attached to the autos reveal that the immense majority of the services provided by the company is made up of consultations or "medical services" not specified provided or directly to individuals or to the service recipient "Northwest Ltda Hospital".

Analysed together, the above circumstances point to the conclusion that the author society is actually intended for the purely and simple provision of medical services personally by its partners, whether directly to their patients, whether in the condition of contracts by another legal person (in the case, the Northwest Hospital Ltda). It is not identified, in this scenario, any constitutive element of the concept of company in society.

In his demonstrations, however, the author limited to reiterating the existence of the registration in the Commercial Board. In addition, he brought photos of the physical establishment "where the respective hospital services are provided", without clarifikating, however, whether the structure belongs to the author's own society or to the Northwest Ltda Hospital (the legal person is that, as already highlighted, has as its headquarters the same address of the author).

It is repeated that there is no requirement for the existence of a physical hospital structure belonging to the author society itself, have seen that the tax benefit did not consider the characteristic or structure of the taxpayer in itself (subjective criterion), but the nature of the own service provided (health care). However, even in the face of this understanding, the STJ jurisprudence does not dispense the existence of other minimum components suitable to characterize the "entrepreneurial element". Therefore, there is a need that remains demonstrated the material presence of a dynamic organization of the production factors (capital, work, raw material and technology) that allows to characterize a business entity, which is not evidenced by the presentation of tax notes that only indicate intellectual services, provided by the personal ones.

In fact, the simple registration does not give the quality of the company, whose characterization derives from typically business material acts. That is, it is not the registration that gives the quality of the entrepreneur, but the exercise of the business activity. It is what is verified from the Enunciate No. 199 of the III Day of Civil Law of the Federal Justice Council: “the registration of the entrepreneur or entrepreneur society is a delineating requirement of its regularity, not of its characterization ”.

Therefore, it is not enough to say that it has an active registration before the Commercial Board as an entrepreneurial company if the company does not have any trading purpose and does not promote the exploitation of business activity, since no organization of the production factors is verified, but only the exercise of the (intellectual) profession of physician by the partners.

As the federal dealer Romulo Pizzolatti points out, in the previously mentioned, the exercise of the (intellectual) profession of physician is "the preponderant element, so that the only and exclusive reason for the creation of legal persons was the exploitation of the most advantageous legal-tributary regime, in manifest abuse of form" (...). It does not satisfy, therefore, this requirement of tax law if a business society is constituted only 'in the paper', aiming exclusively to obtain the taxation favoured, because there will be, in such a case, abusive tax planning " (TRF4, AC13261-37.2020.4.04.7003, SEGUNDA TURMA, RÔMOLZOLTI, together with the autodetermination in 17/08/2021 the paradigm of the STURGIS is similar to the

In fact, the appealed judgment analyzes the actual existence of the elements of the company as a presumption to recognize that it is actually an entrepreneurial society, despite its merely registration in the Commercial Board, with the clear purpose of coibering the abusive tax planning. In turn, the issue 217/STJ does not face such a matter of material law, since it only deals with the scope of the expression hospital services. There is therefore no factical and legal similarity, teaching the application of the Order Question No. 22/TNU : "It is possible the non-knowledge of the request for uniformization by a monocratic decision when the judgment recurred does not keep the factical similarity and legal with the paradigm"

Furthermore, to dissence from the factic premise based on the appealed judgment that the author would be constituted as a business society from a merely formal point of view, it would be necessary the re-establishment of the factic-probatory set. Rever such conclusion finds obce in summary 42/TNU : "There is no known incident of uniformization that involves re-examination of matter of fact" . In this sense, it is necessary to cite the following trials of TNU:

For the purposes of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council

For example, if you are a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of

Electronic document signed by NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ, Federal Judge, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the e-mail address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/external_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents, by filling the verifier code 900000285944v8 and the CRC code 0929149a. Additional information of the signature: Signator (a): NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ Date and Time: 11/04/2025, at 16:50:44 Authenticity Conference issued at 28/04/2025 SCES, TRECHO, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs, Southern Clubs.

For the purposes of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of

A national uniformization request appealed against the judgment of the 1st Court of Appeal of Paraná which, reforming the judgment of partial proceedings, did not recognize the right to the collection of the IRPJ and CSLL with reduced liabilities, to the argument that the author, although formally constituted as an entrepreneurial society, was materially a simple society created for the provision of medical services by its partners.

The appealed judgment did not go away from the guidelines signed in Subject No. 217/STJ, according to which it is possible the collection of IRPJ and CSLL with reduced payments by business companies providing hospital services. The refusal to apply the tax benefit arose from the analysis of the evidence contained in the autos, from which it was concluded that the author does not develop business activity properly said, limiting itself to the personal provision of medical services by the partners, without minimal elements of productive organization. The dispute treated in the appealed judgment, relating to the material existence of business society, was not the subject of Subject No. 217/STJ, therefore there is no similarity-juridic.

The modification of the conclusions adopted in the origin, in order to recognize the existence of an entrepreneurial society with a productive organization, would require a reexamination of the probative set of the autos, unable provision in the narrow path of the application for uniformization. Incidence of the Summary No. 42 of TNU. IV DISPOSITIVE AND TESE 7. request for national uniformization unknown. Thesis of judgment: "1. The absence of factic-juridical similarity between the appealed judgment and the paradigm prevents the knowledge of the request for uniformization. 2. The discarterization of the entrepreneurial society by the absence of the organization of the production factors constitutes a matter of fact, unable reexamination in the way of TNU.

The relevant legislation cited: Law No. 9.249/1995, art. 15, § 1o, III, “a”; art. 20, III. relevant jurisprudence cited: There is no jurisprudence provided.

Electronic document signed by NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ, Federal Judge, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the e-mail address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/external_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents, by filling the verifier code 900000285945v4 and the CRC code 718d8f19 . Additional information of the signature: Signator (a): NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ Date and Time: 11/04/2025, at 16:50:44 Authenticity Conference issued at 28/04/2025 EXTRA DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUTE DAUT

PRESIDENT : Minister ROGERIO SCHIETTI MACHADO CRUZ PROCURADOR(A) : BRASILINO PEREIRA DOS SANTOS REQUERENT : UNION - NATIONAL FACE REQUERED : C.C. SERVICES MEDICOS LTDA ADVOGADO(A) : LUIZ HENRIQUE TEIXEIRA (OAB PR086122) ADVOGADO(A) : JOSE RENATO REGHIN (OAB PR080194) ADVOGADO(A) : DERICK MATHEUS MAIN COSTA (OAB PR111493) Certificate that this process was included in the Virtual Session, held in the period of 03/0425, at 00:00, at 09/0425, at 23:59, in the sequence of the UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF'S UNICEF

Votant : Federal Judge NEIAN MILHOMM CRUZ Votant : Federal Judge LILIAN OLIVEIRA OF THE COSTA TOURINHO Votant : Federal Judge GIOVANI BIGOLIN Votant : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Votant : Federal Judge NAGIBE DE MELO JORGE NETO Votant : Federal Judge JOÃO CARLOS CABRELON DE OLIVEIRA Votant : Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES Votant : Federal Judge MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE Votant : Federal Judge IVAN CARES IRES JUNIOR Votant : Federal Judge NAGIBE DE MELO JORGE NETO Votant : Federal Judge JOÃO CARLOS CABRELON DE OLIVEIRA Votant : Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant :