SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Fone: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Uniformization of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 0000417-79.2023.4.05.8500/ SE RELATOR : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Requested : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS Requested : MARIA DA CONCEICAO DE JES RELATOR

It is a national uniformization request made by the INSS in the face of a judgment issued by the Turma Recursal de Sergipe, which denied provision to its appeal and retained the proceedings judgment relating to tax benefit by incapacity, having recognised the validity of the contributions issued by the author, in the period of 01/05/2021 and 30/04/2023, in the condition of optional low-income insurance.

The Court of Appeal claims that the appealed judgment, having confirmed the judgment on its own grounds, differed from the precedent fixed by TNU in the representative issue judgment no. 241, by recognizing the validity of the contributions given by the author as optional low-income insured, though the existence of news in the autos on the informal exercise by the same of the activity of the caregiver of elderly, perceiving around R$3,000,00/month, which would frame it into the condition of individual taxpayer.

A preliminary judgment of admissibility by the Presidency of the TNU recognizes there are indications of the divergence raised ( event 4, DOC1 ), after interposition of agravo in the autos themselves ( event 1, DOC14 ). The judgments concluded for trial came. VOTO Consistent with article 14 of Law No. 10.259/2001, “There will be a request for uniformization of the interpretation of federal law when there is a divergence between decisions on material law matters made by the Court of Appeal in the interpretation of the law.”

In accordance with Article 12, § 1, of the Internal Reglement of this National Uniformation Tower (Resolution No. 586, of 30 September 2019), the author of the Application for Uniformation must demonstrate, as regards the matter of material law, the existence of divergence in the interpretation of federal law between the appealed decision and the decision made by the Court of Appeal or Regional linked to another Federal Regional Court or summary or dominant understanding of the Higher Court of Justice or the National Uniformation Tower.

"(...) already the CNIS reveals contributive collection after the reingress between 01/05/2021 and 30/04/2023, with a gloss relating to the framework as an optional low-income insured. However, there is compliance with the deficiency requirement sufficient to ensure the quality of the insured. In fact, the situation deserves a focus focused on the perspective of constitutional protection to the right to caution and trust, without prejudice to the contributive character of the Social Security regime. In the beginning, it is appropriate to recognize the objective character of the official information provided by the municipality on the official page, updated on 11.2020 (https://www.gov.br/s/pt/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s

Optional low-income is a form of contribution to the INSS with the reduced value of 5% of the minimum wage. This modality is exclusive for man or woman of low-income families and that is dedicated exclusively to domestic work within the scope of their residence (home donation) and has no own income. (...) There is therefore no post-stage registration of the validation of the contributions, there is also no forecast of formal notification to the taxpayer about any irregularities in the collection. Such relevant omission generates legitimate expectation of tax coverage, especially taking into account the client of the service, low-income insurance, regulated by the Federal Constitution article 201, § 12 :

The law will dispose of a special system of tax inclusion to address low-income workers and those without own income who dedicate themselves exclusively to domestic work within their residence, provided that they belong to low-income families, guaranteeing them access to benefits of value equal to a minimum salary. There is no way to escape, therefore, of the constitutional shape, which requires domestic work within the residence. However, such assertive does not imply absence of tax coverage, considering the constitutional regramm that ensures the right to tax coverage (Article 6), the universality in the coverage oriented to social security (Article 194, single paragraph, I) and the character of the contribution to the residence.

The legal question that embodies the irresignation of the INSS in this fact is identical to that object of uniformization by e. TNU in the Theme 241 of the representative PEDILEFs, in which the following thesis was approved: The exercise of paid activity, although informal and of low economic expression, obstacles to the framework as an optional low-income insured, in the form of article 21, §2o, II, paragraph 'b', of Law 8.212/91, preventing the validation of the contributions collected under the rate of 5%.

In prestige to the hygiene and coherence of the preceding system, must be observed the crystallized legal understanding in the above thesis reproduced, that is that it has remained proven in the authors that the author informally exercised the activity of caregiver of elderly, losing around R$ 3,000,00/month, which would frame it into the condition of individual taxpayer and not facultative low income! (...) In view of the above, after regular KNOWLEDGE and processing of this Internal/Regimental Agreement, the NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY – INSS, represented by AGU, requires: Preliminally, due to the clear irreversibility of the measure, requires the REVERATION OF THE ANTECADA; b) in the MÉRITO: the reversion of the inexistence of the quality of the author's request.

However, the appeal must be denied, whether because the decision is based on a qualified decision, or because it is based on the whole of the evidence produced during the proceedings."On the other hand, the thesis fixed on the representative issue no. 241, so directed the controversy: The exercise of remunerated activity, although informal and of low economic expression, obstacles to the framework as an optional low-income insured, in the form of article 21, §2, II, paragraph 'b', of Law 8.212/91, preventing the validation of the contributions collected under the allocation of 5%

I think it is not the case of application of Summary 42 of the TNU, because the controversy does not depend on rebound of factic matter, since the Turma of origin, even considering the perception of own income by the author, in an informal way, in the condition of caregiver of elderly, decided to frame it as an optional low-income insured, under various arguments of legal order, for example of "good faith", "violation of the principle of confidence", "inexistence of subsequent stage of validation of the contributions paid by the pretentious insured", "creation of legitimate expectations by the same of previdency protection", among other grounds.

While the paradigm of this TNU, at its turn, decided to discharacter the condition of optional low-income insured in the hypothesis of performance of paid activity, although informal and of low economic impact.

If the National Court decides that the uniformization incident must be known and provided with regard to the matter of law and if such conclusion implies in the need for the examination of evidence on the matter of fact, which have been requested and not produced, or have been produced and not assessed by the lower instances, the judgment or judgment of the Court of Appeal shall be cancelled so that such evidence may be produced or assessed, the judge of 1st grade and the respective Court of Appeal shall be linked to the understanding of the National Court of Appeal on the matter of law, with the cancellation of the judgment, so that another may be proclaimed in its place, respecting the legal prerequisite fixed in 241.

In view of the above, vote for accepting and giving provision to the application for uniformization of the INSS, in accordance with the issue of order no. 20. electronic document signed by PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO, Judge Rapporteur, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents, by filling the verifier code 900000285187v6 and the CRCe code 254b09 .

SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Fone: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Uniformization of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 0000417-79.2023.4.05.8500/ SE RELATOR : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Requested : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS Requested : MARIA DA CONCEICAO DE JESENTA EMUSENTA DIRE PREVIDARIO.

It is a national uniformization request made by the INSS against a judgment of the Turma Recursal of Sergipe, which retained the judgment favourable to the recognition of the quality of optional low-income insurance by the author, validating the tax contributions issued in the period from 01/05/2021 to 30/04/2023 . the INSS argues that the appealed judgment differs from the thesis fixed in the Theme 241 of the TNU, since the author's part exercises informally paid activity as a caregiver of elderly, perceiving about R$ 3,000.00 monthly, which would frame it as an individual taxpayer and not as a optional low-income insurance.

The incident was not admitted in the origin, under the claim that it would demand the return of factic matter (TNU Summary 42). However, in the judgment of admissibility, the TNU Presidency recognised the existence of jurisprudential divergence, following the incident. II. QUESTION IN DISCUSION The question in question consists in knowing whether the exercise of remunerated activity, although informal and of low economic expression, prevents the framework of the insured as a low-income facultative, in accordance with article 21, § 2, II, 'b', of Law no. 8.212/1991 . III. DECISION RAZES In accordance with article 14 of Law no. 10.25/2009, the uniformity of the request for the exercise of remunerated activity, though informal and of low economic expression, prevents the framework of the insured as a low-income facultative, in accordance with article 21, § 2, II, 'b', of Law no.

Theme 241 of the TNU signed the following thesis: "The exercise of paid activity, though informal and of low economic expression, obstacles the framework as a low-income optional insured, in the form of article 21, §2o, II, paragraph 'b', of Law no. 8.212/91, preventing the validation of the contributions collected under the ally of 5%."In the specific case, the Sergipe Recursal Tower validated the contributions of the author as a low-income optional insured, although it acknowledges that it exercises informally paid activity.

Therefore, it is not a return of factic matter, but a mistake in the legal interpretation of the specific case, since the Turma itself recognized that the author part possessed own income, which prevents the characterization as a facultative insured of low income. By applying the Order Question No. 20 of the TNU, the appealed judgment must be cancelled, determining that a new judgment is made in accordance with the thesis set in Subject 241.

Thesis of judgment: "1. the exercise of remunerated activity, although informal and low economic expression, prevents the framework as an optional low-income insured, in accordance with article 21, § 2, II, 'b', of Law no. 8.212/1991. 2. the validation of the contributions paid under the 5% allocation requires the proof of the absence of any form of own income by the insured." relevant legislation quoted: Law no. 8.212/1991, article 21, § 2, II, 'b'; Law no. 10.259/2001, article 14.

Electronic document signed by PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO, Judge Rapporteur, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The authenticity conference of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/external_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents, by filling the verifier code 900000285194v4 and the CRC code f7e831ea . Additional information of the signature: Signator (a): PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Date and Hour: 11/0425, at 15:31 authenticity conference issued at 28/04/2003 EXTRATO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUTO DAUT

RELATOR : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO PRESIDENT : Minister ROGERIO SCHIETTI MACHADO CRUZ PROCURADOR(A) : BRASILINO PEREIRA DOS SANTOS REQUERENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS REQUERED : MARIA DA CONCEICAO DE JESUS ADVOGADO(A) : PAULO FERNANDA PORTO NUNES (OAB SP494256) Certificate that this process was included in the Virtual Session Pout, held in the period of 03/04/2025, at 00:00, at 09/04/2025, at 23:59, in the sequence 89, available on 25/03/205.

RELATOR OF THE ACORD : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Voting : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Voting : Federal Judge NAGIBE DE MELO JORGE NETO Voting : Federal Judge JOÃO CARLOS CABRELON DE OLIVEIRA Voting : Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Voting : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES Voting : Federal Judge MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE Voting : Federal Judge IVANIR CESAR IRENO JUNIOR Voting : Federal Judge RODRIGO RIGONTE Voting : Federal Judge HEAVIQUE PEIXINE Voting : Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Voting : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES Voting : Federal Judge MONIQUE MARCHIOLIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE Voting :