SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Final Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Quarter: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Found: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Unification of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 5019029-70.2022.4.04.7003/ In the judicial process point that Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure

It is a Federal Law Interpretation Request made by the author face to the judgment of the 1st Court of Appeal of Paraná which, reforming the judgment (judgment) of partial proceedings, did not recognize the right to the collection of the IRPJ and CSLL with reduced fees, in relation to the provision of hospital services. Narra the PUIL: Legal Context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a proceedings phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the right net and correct when the responsible for ensuring that right to practice illegal act. Recourse: processing instrument seeking a judicial decision: litigation counseling: action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

The applicant entered with this declaratory action (lawsuit) with the request for repeat of indebit objectivating declaring its right to collect the federal taxes of IRPJ and CSLL on the basis of reduced calculation, which is 8% and 12%, respectively, instead of the 32% as it is taxed, since it meets all the requirements established by article 15, §1, III, paragraph “a” and article 20, III, both of the Act no. 9.249/95, or pacified by the Repeat Theme 217 of the STJ (originated from REsp 1.116.399/BA).

For the purposes of paying the taxes with the reduced fees, the expression 'hospitalary services', constituted in article 15, § 1, paragraph III, of Law 9.249/95, must be interpreted in an objective manner (i.e., in the perspective of the activity carried out by the taxpayer), and should be considered hospital services 'those that are bound to the activities developed by the hospitals, directly aimed at the promotion of health', so that 'in the rule, but not necessarily, are provided within the hospital establishment, excluding the simple medical consultations, activity that is not identified with the provided in the hospital, but in the medical consultations.'Admited the incident of uniformization by the President of the TNU. is the legal report.

For better understanding of the controversy, relevant traces of the lead vote of the appealed judgment are transcribed : In the case, it is noted, first, that the corporate framework is formed exclusively by doctors (Clemente Aparecido de Souza and Cleusa Kimie Koike Felipe), who, therefore, exercise the same activity end of the society. Furthermore, it is provided in the social contract of the author that only the first partner will exercise the administration of the society, making righteous, due to that exercise, to the receipt of a monthly remuneration as pro-labore , "which value will be freely convened" between the only. Legal context: The legal procedure is used to submit the same activity end of the society.

Furthermore, the service tax notes attached to the autos reveal that the immense majority of the services provided by the company consists of consultations or "medical services" not specified provided or directly to individuals or to the service recipient "Northwest Ltda Hospital". Finally, it is observed from the documents attached by the author that the company's headquarters coincides, justly, with that of the referred legal person, "Northwest Ltda Hospital". Well. Legal Context: The legal procedure is used to submit a competitive court request: the judicial decision is not specified or directly to individuals or to the service recipient "Northwest Ltda Hospital". Finally, it is observed from the documents attached by the author that the company's headquarters coincides, justly, with that of the referred legal person, "Northwest Ltda Hospital".

Analysed together, the above circumstances point to the conclusion that the author society is actually intended for the purely and simple provision of medical services personally by its partners, whether directly to its patients, whether in the condition of contracts by another legal person (in the case, the Northwest Hospital Ltda). It is not identified, in this scenario, any constitutive element of the concept of the company in society. Thus, elected the assumption resulting from the registration of the constitutive acts of the company in the Commercial Board, would comply with the author part bringing to the autos other evidence elements of its own business nature. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision proposed by a judge in the processing stage of a judicial mandate. Thus, elected the assumption resulting from the registration of the constitutive acts of the company in the Commercial Board, would comply with the author part to bring to the autos other evidence elements of its own business nature.

In his manifestations, however, the author limited himself to reiterate the existence of the registration in the Commercial Board. In addition, he brought photos of the physical establishment "where the respective hospital services are provided", without clarifikating, however, whether the structure belongs to the author's own society or the Northwestern Hospital Ltda (the legal person is that, as already highlighted, has as its headquarters the same address of the author). Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Security order: judicial measure to protect the right net and correct when the responsible for ensuring that right to practice illegal act. Recourse: processing instrument seeking a judicial decision. Legal context: action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

It is repeated that there is no requirement for the existence of a physical hospital structure belonging to the author society itself, having regard that the tax benefit has not considered the characteristic or structure of the taxpayer in itself (subjective criterion), but the nature of the tax notes itself provided (health care). However, even in the face of this understanding, the STJ jurisprudence does not dispense the existence of other minimum components capable of characterizing the "the element of the company." Therefore, there is a need that remains demonstrated the material presence of a dynamic organization of the production factors (capital, work, raw materials and technology) that allows to characterize a business entity, which is not evidenced by the presentation of tax notes that only indicate intellectually personal services.

In fact, the merely registration does not give the quality of the company, whose characterization derives from typically business material acts. That is, it is not the registration that gives the quality of an entrepreneur, but the exercise of the business activity. It is what is verified from the Enunciate No. 199 of the III Day of Civil Law of the Federal Justice Council: “the registration of the entrepreneur or entrepreneur society is a delineating requirement of its regularity, and not of its characterization ”. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the right net and correct when the responsible for the exercise of this illegal act.

Therefore, it is not enough to claim that it has an active registration before the Commercial Board as an entrepreneurial company if the company does not have any negotiating purpose and neither promotes the exploitation of business activity, since it does not verify any organization of the productive factors, but only the exercise of the (intellectual) profession of a doctor by the partners . Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the net and correct right when the responsible for ensuring that right to exercise an illegal act. Recourse: processual instrument that seeks to review the judicial decision. Litiscorcio: joint participation of different parties in the same judicial action.

As the federal defendant Romulo Pizzolatti points out, in the preceding already cited, the exercise of the (intellectual) profession of physician is "the preponderant element, so that the only and exclusive reason for the creation of legal persons was the exploitation of the most advantageous legal-tributary regime, in manifest abuse of form" (...). It does not satisfy, therefore, this requirement of the judicial law that if a corporate society is formed only "in the paper", aiming exclusively to obtain the taxation favored, because there will be, in such a case, abusive tax planning " (TRF4, AC13261-37.2020.44.7003, SEGUNDA RELATOR, ROLZOLTI RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR

In fact, the appealed judgment analyses the actual existence of the elements of the company as a presumption to recognize that it is actually an entrepreneurial society, despite its merely enrollment in the Chamber of Commerce, with the clear purpose of coibering the abusive tax planning. In turn, the issue 217/STJ does not face such a matter of material law, since it only deals with the scope of the expression hospital services. There is therefore no factical and legal similarity, teaching the application of the Order Question No. 22/TNU : "It is possible the non-knowledge of the application of uniformization by a monocratic decision when the appealed judgment does not keep the factual similarity and the legal paradigm with the judgment" Concurrence: the judicial procedure: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process: the legal process

In addition, to dissence from the factic premise based on the appealed judgment that the author would be constituted as a business society from a mere formal point of view, it would be necessary the re-establishment of the factic-probatory set. Rever such conclusion finds obce in summary 42/TNU : "There is no known incident of uniformization that involves re-examination of the matter of fact" . In this sense, it is necessary to cite the following judges of TNU: Legal Context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge closing a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the right net and correct when the responsible for ensuring this right to practice illegal act.

For the purposes of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council

In this case, it is necessary to ensure that you have the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right.

The electronic document itself contradiction signed by the judicial judgment conjugal NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ, Federal Judge, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the e-mail address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/external_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents that the judicial process is seeking the right to proceed with the request of the measurement code in 900000285944v8 and the CRC code 0929149a.

On the other hand, it is important to note that, in the case of a non-compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1,

A national uniformization request appealed against a judgment of the 1st Court of Appeal of Paraná which, reforming the judgment (judgment) of partial proceedings, did not recognize the right to the collection of the IRPJ and CSLL with reduced payments, to the argument that the author, although formally constituted as an entrepreneurial society, was materially a simple society created for the provision of medical services by its partners. II. QUESTION IN DISCUSSION 2. The question in question is whether the appealed judgment contradicted the understanding signed in Subject 217 of the Higher Court of Justice, which interprets the expression "hospitals" for the purposes of the application of the reduced payments of the IRPJ and CSLL.

The appealed judgment did not go away from the guidance signed in Subject No. 217/STJ, according to which it is possible to collect IRPJ and CSLL with alicates reduced by business companies providing hospital services. The refusal to apply the tax benefit arose from the analysis of the evidence contained in the autos, from which it was concluded that the author does not develop the business activity itself said, limiting itself to the personal provision of medical services by the partners, without the minimum elements of productive organization. The dispute treated in the appealed judgment, relating to the material existence of business society, was not the subject of Subject No. 217/STJ, therefore there is no similarity-juridic. The incidence of the National Court of Justice on the Union Court of Justice on the Court of Justice on the Court of Justice on the Court of Justice on the Court of Justice:

The modification of the conclusions adopted in the origin, in order to recognize the existence of an entrepreneurial society with a productive organization, would require a reexamination of the probative set of the autos, provision incapable in the narrow way of the organization of the productive factors constitutes a matter of fact, incapable of reexamination via TNU No. 42 IV. DISPOSITIVE AND TESE 7. request for national uniformization unknown. Thesis of judgment: "1. The absence of factic-juridical similarity between the judgment appealed and the paradigm prevents the knowledge of the request for uniformization. 2. The discernment of the entrepreneurial society by the absence of the organization of the productive factors constitutes a matter of fact, incapable of reexamination via TNU No. 3 Theme 217/JST Qualification on the material of the judicial uniformization itself is unknown.

The relevant legislation cited: Law No. 9.249/1995, art. 15, § 1o, III, “a”; art. 20, III. relevant jurisprudence cited: There is no jurisprudence provided. ACORD The National Turm of Uniformation decided, by unanimously, not to know of the Application for Uniformation. Brasília, April 9, 2025. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the right net and certain when the responsible for ensuring that right to exercise an illegal act. Recourse: processual instrument that seeks to review the judicial decision. Litiscory: joint participation of different parties in the same judicial action. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase.

The electronic document on the same judicial judgment contradiction signed by NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ, Federal Judge, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/external_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents that the judicial process is seeking the right to proceed with the request of the various instruments of action in order to practice the measurement code in 900000285945v4 and the CRC code 718d8f19. Additional information of the signature: Signatory (a): NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ Date and Time: 11/04/2025, at 16:50:44 the authenticity conference issued at 28/04/2025 EXTRA DECAT DECAT DECAT DECAT DECAT DECAT DECAT DECAT DECAT DEC:

PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT : PREDIDENT :

Votant : Federal Judge NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ Final Judgment Controversy Votant : Federal Judge LILIAN OLIVEIRA OF THE COSTA TOURINHO Votant : Federal Judge GIOVANI BIGOLIN Votant : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO Votant : Federal Judge NAGIBE DE MELO JORGE NETO Votant : Federal Judge JOÃO CARLOS CABRELON OF THE OLIVEIRA Votant : Federal Judge FABIO OF THE COSTA SILVA Votant : Federal Judge FABIO OF THE COSTA SILVA Votant : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES Votant : Federal Judge MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE Votant : Federal Judge IVAN MARCHIOLI LEITE Votant : Federal Judge NAGIBE DE MELO JORGE Votant : Federal Judge NAGIBE OF THE COSTA FLORGE Votant :