SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Found: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for uniformization of interpretation of law (Turma) No 0002829-74.2023.4.05.8308/ PE RELATOR: Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES REQUIRITED: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS REQUIRITED: MARIA DE LOURDES LUCAS MACEDO RELATORY Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a judicial claim on a competitive judgement.

The incident of the INSS invests against judgment of the 3rd Court of Appeal of Pernambuco which, in denying provision to its appeal (appel), recognized the quality of special insurance in favour of the applicant, although it is the beneficiary of death pension at a value greater than the minimum. There is a violation of the provisions of article 11, § 9th, I, of Law 8.213/91, included by Law 11.718/08. The paradigms are of the TRU-4th Region and the 2nd Court of Appeal of Rio Grande do Sul. Inadmitted the incident in the origin, overflowed severe, provided by the decision of the President of the Court of Appeal. Relatei VOTO Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent judgment: Judgment proposed by law 11.718/08. The paradigms are of the same TRU-4th Region and the 2nd Court of Appeal of Rio Grande do Sul.

While the appealed judgment considered irrelevant, in order to remove the quality of insurance from the applicant, the fact that she is the beneficiary of death pension of a value greater than the lowest benefit of continued benefit of the Social Security judgment, the paradigm judgments, in applying the provisions of article 11, § 9th, I, of Law 8.213/91, with the draft given by Law 11.718/08, removed the condition of special insurance of the applicants due to the death pension perceived to be of a value greater than the minimum.

Thus was drawn up the winning vote issued by the reporter, the Federal Judge Caio Moysés de Lima: The jurisprudential divergence is well characterized. The exercise of rural activity by the applicant is a controversial matter. It is also controversial the perception by the author of death pension at a value greater than the minimum salary. The source group recognized the right of the applicant to retirement by rural age request by understanding that his condition of special insured does not discharacterize by the perception of the benefit of death pension. It distracted the incidence of article 11, § 9, paragraph I, of Law no. 8.213/91 by considering unconstitutional the trace “which value does not exceed the lowest benefit of the social continuity benefit of the legal benefits of the legal benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits of the benefits.

For better understanding, here is the judge’s conclusive judgment argument (which I emphasize in grey): PREVIDENCIARY DECISION PREVIDENCIARY DECISION PREVIDENCIARY DECISION PREVIDENCIARY DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION.

IUJEF No. 5000249-72.2015.404.7118/RS - REGIONAL DECISION OF UNIFORMIZATION OF THE 4th REGION EMENTA REQUISION OF UNIFORMIZATION OF JURISPRUDENCE INTERPOSITED BY THE AUTHOR. PREVIDENCIARY. APRESENTADORY BY THE RURAL AGE. PREVIDENCIARY IN THE JURISPRUDENCE CATEGORY OF THE SPECIAL SECURITY THIS ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION ACTION

[...] It is certain that the perception of values up to a minimum wage are excluded and relativized for granting rural benefits. However, in case, the perceived value exceeds the minimum wage. In accordance with article 11, § 9, of Law no. 8.213/91, the family group member who possesses another source of income is not specially insured, except if it is derived from: I – death pension benefit, accident aid or detention aid, whose value does not exceed the lowest benefit of continued benefit of Social Security; Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge in a processing phase. Mandate of judicial security: the right to protect the right of death, accident aid or detention aid, whose value does not exceed the lowest benefit of continued benefit of social security; Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

It is highlighted that here it is not a decision of not recognition of the quality of insurance of the author, simply by the fact of receiving urban death pension and rather from the conclusion that from the value of such pension, which exceeds the minimum wage, is that comes the maintenance of the family core in question, thus removing the character of subsistence of rural activity. [...] Therefore, while the contested judgment considered partially unconstitutional the legal rule cited in the paradigms, these applied the legal device in its integrity. Step, therefore, to the analysis of merit. The solution of the paradigms seems to me to be the correct. Legal context: Legal procedure used to submit a competent judge. Judgment: Final decision proposed by a judgment in the phase of judgment considering the legal rule cited in the paradigms, these applied the legal device in its integrity.

The pension by age to the special insured is provided in article 201, § 7th, section II, of the Federal Constitution, which mentions as beneficiaries “the rural workers and for those exercising their activities in the regime of family economy, in these including the rural producer, the garmin and the craftsmanship fisherman.” As read in the chapter of § 7, the aforementioned pension is granted by the general regime of social security “in the terms of the law”. Therefore, it is up to the ordinary legislator to define the circumstances of the regime of family economy, which has been done in detail in section VII and paragraphs of article 11 of the Law no. 8.213/91.

In § 1, in particular, the expression "family economy regime" is defined as "the activity in which the work of the family members is indispensable to the own subsistence and to the socio-economic development of the family core and is exercised in conditions of mutual dependence and collaboration, without the use of permanent employees ".Therefore, it is essential for the characterization of the family economy regime that the family members extract their support primarily from rural activity exercised in conditions of mutual dependence and collaboration.And it is also, therefore, in the light of this conceptual core that must be interpreted the possibilities of discaracterization of the condition of special insurance provided in § 9, the following reproduction: Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit to the demand of the family economy that the family members extract their support primarily from rural activity exercised in conditions of mutual dependence and collaboration.

[...] § 9 is not specially insured the family member who possesses another source of income, except if resulting from: I – benefit of retirement due to death, accident aid or defense aid, whose value does not exceed that of the lowest benefit of continued benefit of Social Security; (included by Law No. 11.718, of 2008) II – benefit of insurance for participation in a judicial plan of complementary provision established in accordance with paragraph IV of § 8 of this article; (included by Law No. 11.718, of 2008) III – exercise of remunerated activity in the period of entry or defense, not greater than 120 (hundred and twenty) days, or intercalated, in the civil year, the provisions of the Law No. 11.718, of 2008) II – benefit of insurance for participation in a judicial provision provision in accordance with

III - exercise of remunerated activity in a period not greater than a hundred and twenty days, running or intercalated, in the calendar year, observed as provided in § 13 of article 12 of Law No. 8.212, of 24 July 1991; (Reduction given by Provisional Measure No. 619, of 2013) III - exercise of remunerated activity in a period not greater than 120 (hundred and twenty) days, running or intercalated, in the calendar year, observed as provided in § 13 of article 12 of Law No. 8.212, of 24 July 1991; (Reduction given by Law No. 12.873, of 2013) IV – exercise of electoral mandate of union leader of the organization of the category of rural workers; (Included by the Parties No. 619, of 2013) III - exercise of remunerated activity in a period not greater than 120 (hundred and twenty) days,

V – exercise of mandate of council council in which it develops the rural activity or of director of rural cooperative constituted, exclusively, by special insurers, observed the provisions in § 13 of article 12 of Law no. 8.212, of 24 July 1991; (Included by Law no. 11.718, of 2008) VI – partnership or measure granted in the form and conditions established in section I of § 8 of this article; (Included by Law no. 11.718, of 2008) VII – artisanal activity developed with raw material produced by the respective family group, and may be used raw material of another origin, provided that the monthly income obtained in the activity does not exceed the benefit of continued provision of Social; and (Included by Law no. 11.718, of the law on the legal part: Included by the judicial point of the same request;

VIII – artistic activity, provided that in monthly value less than the lowest benefit of continued provision of the Social Security. (Included by Law No. 11.718, of 2008) [...] That is, in the above listed cases, the condition of special insurance is removed because the worker has another source of income sufficient to guarantee his maintenance. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the net and certain right when the responsible for ensuring that right to exercise an illegal act. Recourse: processual instrument that seeks to review a judicial decision. Litiscourse: joint participation of different parties in the same judicial action.

As the purpose of maintenance is what characterizes the pre-financial benefits in general, it is reasonable the provision of paragraph I that makes cease the quality of special insurer to the one who passes to receive pension benefit by death, accident aid or prison aid in value greater than the lowest benefit of continued benefit of Social Security. It is supposed, in this case, that the worker already has his maintenance duly secured by the pre-financial benefit. Thus, I have for correct the conclusion that the paradigm of the 2nd Chair of the Ceará has arrived in this section of the judgment: Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a claim to a competent judge.

[...] It is highlighted that here it is not a decision of non-recognition of the quality of insurance of the author, simply by the fact of receiving urban death pension and rather from the conclusion that from the value of such pension, which exceeds the minimum wage, is that comes the maintenance of the family core in question, thus removing the character of subsistence of rural activity. [...] Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the net and correct right when the responsible for ensuring that right to practice illegal act.

Therefore, the strict application of article 11, § 9, paragraph I, of Law no. 8.213/91 does not prevent it from being considered to beined the quality of special insurance of the other members of the family if and as long as their subsistence still depends on the activity exercised in the regime of the family economy. Finally, it is necessary to draw some considerations on the interpretation given by the Social Security Regulation to the legal arrangement in agreement. It says article 9, § 8, paragraph I and I-A, in Decree 3.048/99: Legal Context: The legal procedure to be considered to beined the quality of special insurance of the other members of the family if and as long as their subsistence still depends on the activity exercised in the regime of the family economy. Finally, it is necessary to draw some considerations on the interpretation given by the Social Security Regulation to the legal arrangement in agreement.

[...] § 8 is not special insured the family member who possesses another source of income, except if resulting from: (Redacted by Decree No. 6.722, of 2008). I - death pension benefit, accident aid or detention aid, whose value does not exceed the least benefit of social security; (Redacted by Decree No. 10.410, of 2020). I-A - benefit granted to the insured qualified as special insured, regardless of the value; (Included by Decree No. 10.410, of 2020). [...] Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. sentence: final decision made by a judge in a processing phase.

The I paragraph only repeats the article 11, § 9, paragraph I, of Law no. 8.213/91, but the I-A paragraph introduces a novelty that seems to contradict with paragraph I. Why only the grant of death pension, accident aid and prison aid with a value greater than the lowest benefit of continued benefit of Social Security disqualifies the worker as a special insurer? Why does not the same happen with other benefits? The distinction is justified, in my opinion, by a joint interpretation of this device with article 15, paragraph I, of Law no. 8.213/91, according to which "he retains the quality of insurance, independent of unlimited contributions [...] of who enjoys the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit of the benefit.

In fact, it would be contradictory with this legal arrangement that the special insured would lose this quality by receiving prevailing benefit just due to this condition, rescued only the case of accident aid. Section I-A only makes explicit this conclusion . Since Section I takes care of cases in which the benefit perceived or does not arise from the condition of insured, but of dependent (pension for death and aid-arrest), or is explicitly excluded from the rule of article 15, Section I, of Law no. 8.213/91 (accident aid). Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision profered by a judge in the processing phase of an insured, but of dependent (pension for death and aid-arrest), or is explicitly excluded from the rule of article 15, Section I, of Law no. 8.213/91 (accident aid). Legal context: action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

This is also the interpretation given by the Regulatory Instruction No. 128/2022, which, in its article 112, paragraph IX, paragraphs "a" and "b" clarifies thatins the quality of special insured one who perceives (i) " death pension benefit, accident aid or detention aid, during the period in which its value does not exceed the current minimum wage at the time, considered the value of each benefit when receiving more than one "; or (ii) " benefits whose affiliate category is the special insured, regardless of the value ".

[...] About the retirement by age to rural women, prescribes article 48 of Law no. 8.213/91 the minimum age of 60 years, for men, and 55 years, for women, fulfilled the deficiency required in Articles. 142 and 143, in the period immediately before the claim of the benefit, although in a discontinuous manner. The author receives Death Pension, offering value above the minimum wage, which discardes its condition of special insurance, in accordance with Article 11, §9th, I, of Law 8.213/91. [...] The case therefore is the restoration of the judgment (judgment), based on the Question of Order in Articles.

In the course of a trial on a request for uniformization, the National Court may apply the right to the specific case by resolving the dispute in a definitive way, provided that the matter is only of law, or, being in fact and of law, does not need to reexamine the proof framework defined by the previous instances, and can therefore restore the judgment (judgment) disconstructed by the Recursal Court or Regional Court. Before the above, vote by CONHECER and PROVER the request for national uniformization to restore the judgment (judgment) of improcedence. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

As the judgment appealed in confrontation with this understanding, my vote provides the incident, reaffirming the thesis that the condition of special insurance is discharacterized, in accordance with the article 11, § 9th, I, of Law 8.213/91, by the perception of death pension of value greater than the minimum wage. The judges must return to the source, for purposes of readjustment to the above understanding. In front of the above, the vote for giving PROVIMENT to the incident of UNIFORMIZATION Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge in the processing phase of a minimum wage. Mandate of judicial security: to protect the right of origin, for the purpose of readjustment to the above understanding.

Electronic document on the same illegal judicial decision signed by LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES, Judge Rapporteur, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents, by means of the completion of the judgment in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action in the action.

On the other hand, it is important to note that, in the case of non-compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph

The rapporteur submitted a vote in the sense of giving provision to the incident of uniformization interposed, in order to determine the return of the autos to the Turma of origin so that proceeds the adequacy of the judge to the socio-economic peculiarities of this class of insured, the differentiated treatment to them assured by the Federal Constitution of PUIL 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304. I asked for a better consideration of the case in trial. With the case in trial itself, I dare to divert. This is because, the adoption of the norm in trial as an absolute criterion for discarding the condition of special insured of the rural worker does not consider the socio-economic peculiarities of this class of insured, the differentiated treatment to them provided by the Federal Constitution of 1988 and still results in the interpretation of the other parties of the hypocrisis on the case in trial. § 11, paragraph 9, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, parag

Under this prisma, it seems more reasonable to conclude that, by establishing the criteria set out in Article 11, §9 of the Benefits Act, the legislator's intention was to keep the special insured in that category as long as he continues effectively working on the ground and that the exercise of another activity does not make the rural labor economically affordable. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Security mandate: to safeguard the judicial measure and when the responsible for the right to practice this illegal process: the exercise of another activity does not make the rural labor economically affordable. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

It is worth saying, the interpretative point that must guide the judge in the examination of the circumstances indicated in law as disqualifiers of the special insurance condition is the effective dispensability or not of rural work as the main source of maintenance. And there is no other way to carry out such analysis except by assessing case-by-case the evidence produced and suppressing the specific circumstances of each situation. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the net and correct right when the responsible for ensuring that right to practice illegal act. Recourse: processual instrument that seeks a review of the judicial decision.

I resume, for example, the situation of a remaining spouse, recipient of death pension above the minimum for infinitely value, who was left with five children, all under the age of twelve and incapable of assisting in the maintenance of the family and/or in the countryside. How to imagine that in this situation the value of the pension would be sufficient to provide the maintenance of the family core, making discountable the rural work? Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge closing a processal phase. Security order: judicial measure to protect the net and correct right when the responsible for the right to practice this illegal act. Recourse: review process instrument seeking a judicial decision. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

In the second example, the spouses perceive benefits of rural retirement in the condition of special insured, i.e. the family income is of two minimum wages. The family is composed of a husband, wife and four children in school age. How to explain the possibility of this family to receive the equivalent of two minimum wages in this situation, and another similar family core to be prevented from offering values resulting from a retirement if the pension for the death of one of the spouses is slightly higher than the minimum? Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Mandate security measure: to protect the right net and the right responsible to exercise this legal act if the death of one of the spouses is slightly higher than the minimum?

Thus, the analysis under the individual perspective of the insured who receives the pension, as proposed in the judgment of PUIL 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304, adopted as a reason to decide by the reporter of the present incident, appears incorrect because it discovers the numerous possibilities in which the family core has no other source of income and depends only and exclusively on the remaining spouse. It would not be enough, the understanding that the member of the rural family group beneficiary of pension for death value above the minimum cannot be considered insured special acarreta injustice discrimination with the various situations described in article 11, §9, of the Benefits Act. Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent claim to a judicial judgment: the judgment proposes a definitive judgment to a judicial judgment.

In this sense, we can cite the hypotheses of the incisions III (payed activity), IV (sessional electoral mandate), V (reporter) and VI (party/member) of §9 of article 11 of the LBPS, situations in which a limit cover for the source of extraordinary income was not provided. And here it is necessary to collate, by the brilliantness of the exposure of arguments, trace of the judgment issued by the same Court of Appeal of the Tocantins Judicial Section in the judgment of RI 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304, rel. Federal Judge Wagmar Roberto Silva, which well describes the apparent antinomia existing under the exame device. Let’s see: Legal Context: The legal procedure to submit to the judgment of the judgment on the same Court of Appeal of the Tocantins Judicial Section in the judgment of RI 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304, which is responsible for the judgment of the judgment of the judgment.

[...]6.3. The same hypotheses of incisions III (payed activity), IV (congregated decision mandate) and V (congregated) of § 9 of article 11 of the LBPS cause disproportionally inequality treatment in relation to the pensionist and artist. The three hypotheses do not limit the source of extraordinary income and reveal that the special insured will maintain its quality of judicial insured even if the judicial subsidy, for example, requests, reaches the constitutional threshold – currently approximately R$18.991.68 – since the remuneration can vary between 20% to 75% of the subsidy of the state deputy (congregated VI of article 29 of the CF).

6.4. The hypothesis of paragraph VI of § 9 of article 11 of LBPS, i.e. the conclusion of partnership or measure granted over up to 50% of the extension of the rural real estate, limited to two tax modules (paragraph I of § 8 of article 11 of LBPS), also destroys the absence of monetary margins to the rural business . In fact, the rural producer (proprietary, for example), in a partnership agreement, may provide input and the partner adhere to the contract with the labour for the cultivation in two tax modules.

6.5. Another regulatory discrepancy is contained in the hypothesis of Section II of § 9 of Article 11 of LBPS. The special insured keeps its quality even though it perceives provents of prevailing benefit by participation in a complementary prevailing plan established by the government’s assistance program (Section IV of § 8 of LBPS). Now, the government can create a complementary prevailing plan – therefore, of prevailing and contributive nature – without the amount offered interfere with the quality of the insured. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge opening a processal phase.

The confrontation of the hypotheses of § 9 of article 11 of the LBPS concludes that the paragraphs I and VIII had an anti-isonomic treatment without any reasonable ratio for discrimination, specifically as regards the death pension and income of artistic activity –in this case, the coherence should have been temporary, i.e. 120 days run or intercalated each year, to maintain harmony with paragraph III.7.1.The consequence of legal discrimination to pensioners, in fact, is translated into a legal imposition of withdrawal of the special insured to rural retirement age to enjoy the death pension, because this is higher than the minimum salary and that limit benefit.

(RI n. 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304, relator of joint judgment Wagmar Roberto Silva, 19a Turma 4.0 - adjunta to the Tocantins Court of Appeal, judged on 20/03/2024, full content available for consultation through the link https://pje2g.trf1.jus.br:443/pje/Procedure/ConsultaDocument/listView.seam?x=24032115574918600000396518609) Remember, the exegese that resolves at one time the apparent antinomia above described and meets the social objectives of the Tocantins Law is that which considers the economic criterion provided for in article 11,9 I, Law of 8.13/91 only a party to be falised in the process with the rest of the legal proceedings, that the legal proceedings are not required for the proceedings of the proceedings.

The Supreme Federal Court, in the judgment of Theme 27 of the General Repercussion, declared the inconstitutionality of the objective criterion of miserability adopted by the Organic Law of Social Assistance (RE 567985, rel. Min Gilmar Mendes, Plenary Court, judged on 18/04/2013, published on 03/10/2013), consolidating the jurisprudential understanding that preponder in the analysis of the requirement of miserability the established proof set and the circumstances of the specific case. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Security mandate: to protect the right net and when the right to ensure that the right to exercise it is illegal.

In the same row, the Higher Court of Justice has already settled in trial under the rite of the repeated appeals (Tema 1.115) that the size of the rural property does not characterize, by itself, the regime of family economy (REsp no. 1.947.404/RS, rapporteur Minister Benedito Gonçalves, First Section, judged on 23/11/2022, DJe of 7/12/2022). Furthermore, in the trial on Subject 532, the Higher Court of Justice concluded that the urban work of one of the members of the family group does not characterize, by itself, the other members as special insurers (REsp no. 1.304.479/SP, rapporteur Minister Benjamin Primeira Se, judged on 10/10/2012, DJe of 19/12/2012).

And finally, it is necessary to collate a paragraph of the judgment made by Minister Benedito Gonçalves in the judgment of REsp 2.121.317/EC, which addressed specifically the issue of death pension by the value of a minimum wage, in the following terms: [...] As regards the allegation of infringement to Article 11, § 9, I of Law No. 8.213/1991, the appealed judgment consigned the following (fl. 240, e-STJ): [...] The § 9, of Article 11 of Law No. 8.213/91, provides in the sense of non-qualification as a special insurer of the family member holding pension by the value of a minimum wage.

However, in the specific case, largely in valuation of the other evidence reference, not only of the labor activity, but also, as regards the actual socio-economic condition of the author, who, with the illness, needs, in addition to the daily expenses, of other expenses also with his precarious health, forced to recognize that the value offered as a pension is not sufficient to the point of dispensing the rural work of the applicant, reason for which it must be recognized the right to the perception of his retirement for invalidity as made the judgment (judgment).

The fact that the author perceives the death pension of the spouse, in value slightly above a minimum salary, does not discharacter his condition of special insurance, since the agricultural activity performed by it, was essential for his survival, being him therefore due the grant of the pension for rural disability, due to his labor incapacity . [...] It is also verified the following step of the integrative judgment regarding the question put (cf. 270-271, e-STJ): [...] Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

As regards the limitation contained in article 11, §9o, I, of Law 8.213/91, by the amendments it introduced, it is clear the intention of the legislator patrio not to have been simply prohibit that the special insured perceives income of any other type of activity other than agriculture, but rather to establish criteria, in order to keep the rural worker while in that category, as long as he continues effectively working on the ground and that the exercise of another activity does not make the rural labor economically affordable.

The economic criterion should be assessed case by case, according to the specific circumstances of each situation. It would have no sense that the legislator intends to exclude from the classification of special insured a person who receives a benefit of value slightly greater than the minimum salary, while simultaneously authorizing the land lease, an operation that has the probability of providing income of higher value. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the net and correct right when the responsible for ensuring that right to exercise illegal act. Recourse: process instrument that seeks a review of the court decision. Legal context: action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase.

In fact, the legal forecast of disqualification of the special insurance condition of the mortal pension holder of value greater than a minimum wage, should be applied restrictively, since the said value, taking into account the other socio-economic aspects present in each case as well as the actual dispensability or not of rural work as the main source of maintenance. Being exactly the case present, in which the value offered as a mortal pension, getting greater than a minimum wage, did not disqualificate the insured to continue exercising rural activity in the regime of a family economy as the main source of subsistence. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: definitive decision proposed by a judge in the processing phase. In the present case, the value offered as a mortal pension, getting greater than a minimum wage, did not disqualificate the insured to continue exercising rural activity in the family economy as the main source of subsistence.

Ratifying, the non-framework only is justified if the rural worker, on the grounds of offering another source of income, can dispose of his own labor in the regime of family economy, which does not constitute the present case, since the embargated only left his rural activities due to the disease that caused him. [...] grifos ours. (REsp no. 2.121.317, Minister Benedito Gonçalves, DJe of 28/08/2024.) Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase.

Following all these considerations, I adhere to the understanding signed by the eminent Federal Judge Lilian Oliveira da Costa Tourinho in divergent vote profered in the judgment of PUIL 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304/TO, in which I made relevant references on the aspects that must rise the analysis of the quality of special insurance in each specific case, such as the number of children, the specific needs of the family group, the characteristics of the same region in which the rural labor is exercised and the socio-economic aspects in which the members of that group are inserted.

The receipt of death pension in the value above the minimum wage does not characterize, by itself, the quality of special insured of the rural worker. The non-framework only is justified if it is proved in the specific case that the yield makes the rural labor for the subsistence and socio-economic development of the family core. On the exposed, votes for NEGAR PROVIMENT to the application for uniformization, with the fixation of the thesis. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge closing a processal phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect the net right and correct when the responsible for ensuring that right to practice the illegal act. Recourse process is seeking a revision tool for the application for uniformization, with the fixation of the thesis. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: Final decision made by a judge closing a processal phase.

The electronic document signed by the final judgment point contrary to the same judgment request by MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE, the Federal Court, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents that the judicial process is seeking the right to proceed in the different act of action by filling out the measurement code 900000286025v29 and the CRC code 66c4f84c. Additional information of the signature: Signatory (a): MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE Data and time: 11/04/2025, at 20:04:23 Conference of authenticity issued at 28/04/2020 SCES, 16:36.

Law Interpretation Request (Turma) No 0002829-74.2023.4.05.8308/ PE RELATOR : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES REQUERENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS REQUERENT : MARIA DE LOURDES LUCAS MACEDO EMENTA INCIDENT NATIONAL OF JURISPRUDENCE same. PREVIDENCIARY. APRESENTATION FOR RURAL AGE. PERCEPTION OF PENSION FOR MORTE DE VALOR SUPERIOR TO THE MINIMUM SALARY. CONDITION OF SPECIAL SECURITY DESCARCARIZED. INCIDENT INCIDENT PREQUERENT. Context: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Procedure: Proced

The appealed judgment is in contradiction with the understanding of this National Uniformation Tower (PUIL 1015564-47.2022.4.01.3304, judged in the virtual session held in the period of 29/08/24 to 04/09/24), according to which the condition of special insurance is discharacterized, in accordance with article 11, § 9th, I, of Law 8.213/91, by the perception of the judicial pension for death value of higher than the minimum wage request.

In the form of article 1nd, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. the conference of authenticity of the document is available at the e-mail address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents of the court, by filling the judgment code of action different instruments of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment.

President : Ministro ROGERIO SCHIETTI definitive judgment different judgment instructions MACHADO CRUZ PROCURADOR(A) : BRASILINO PEREIRA DOS SANTOS REQUERENTE : INSTITUTO NATIONAL DO SOCIAL SEGURO - INSS REQUERENTE : MARIA DE LOURDES LUCAS revised on MACEDO ADVOGADO(A) : LARISSA TALLINE DE MACEDO MAUÉS on the legal proceedings: LEARISSA TALLINE DE MACEDO MAUÉS requested (OAB PE053357) Certificate that this proceedings were included in the Virtual Session session, held on 06/02/2025, at 00:00, at 12/02/2025, at 23:59, in sequence 152, available on 28/01/2025.

Appeal View : The same judicial court judgment CONIQUE MARCHIOLI definitive instructions different measure VIVIANE DE COSTA LEITE BORTOLINI Secretary Conference of authenticity issued on 28/04/2025 16:07:36. EXTRATO DE ATA OF THE VIRTUAL SESSION OF 03/04/2025 A 09/04/2025 Appeal for Unification of Law Interpretation (TURMA) No 0002829-74.2023.4.05.8308/ PE Appeal for Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure

Proof that the same act of illegal judicial decision conjamento definitive, by assessing the autos of the proceedings in epígrafe, issued the following decision: PROSSEGUINDO IN THE JURGAMENT, after the VOTO-VISTA OF THE FEDERAL JURGAMENT MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE in the SENTIDO DE NEGAR PROVIMENTO AT THE INCIDENT OF UNIFORMIZATION judicial parties and the VOTO proceedings that the FEDERAL JURGAMENT'S SENTIDO proceedings in a different proceedings, when it is used by CESAR IRENO JUNIOR, RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA, FLAVIA HEINE PEIXOTO, NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ, LILIAN OLIVERA DA CTAURTO TOURTO, GI

RELATOR on the same legal judgment point : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES VOTANTE : Federal Judge MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE VOTANTE : Federal Judge IVANIR CESAR IRENO JUNIOR VOTANTE : Federal Judge RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA VOTANTE : Federal Judge FLAVIA HEINE PEIXOTO VOTANTE : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES VOTANTE : Federal Judge LEONARDO CASTANHO MENDES VOTANTE : Federal Judge MONIQUE MARCHIOLI LEITE VOTANTE : Federal Judge GIOVANI BIGOLIN VOTANTE : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCE DE PINHO VOTANTE : Federal Judge NAGRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA VOTANTE : Federal Judge VOTANTE VOTANTE : Federal Judge VOTANTE VOTANTE VOTANTE : Federal Judge VOTANTE VOTAN