SCES, TRECHO point 3, Final Act of Judicial Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Quarter: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Found: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Unification of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 1001592-60.2020.4.01.3601/ that MT RELATOR Application: Federal Judge LILIAN requests different measures of action.

“According to the laudo of the judicial medical expertise, in the case in question, no current incapacity of the author part for the performance of its usual activities has been found. [...] In the case in question, it is not observed that despite the diagnosis, the applicant part is not incapacitated, not fulfilling, therefore, the pre-requisite for the pleased benefit for the treatment of cervical neoplasia (CID C53.9)” . It consists of the appealed judgment: “According to the laudo of the judicial medical expertise, in the case in question, no current incapacity of the author part for the performance of its usual activities has been found. [...] In the case in question, it is not observed that despite the diagnosis, the applicant part is not incapacitated, not fulfilling, therefore, the pre-requisite for the pleased benefit.”

After the publication of the judgment, the author party opposed declaration embargos (motion for clarification) , supporting omission regarding the analysis of the claim of benefit for pre-capacity, formulated on the basis of contemporary medical documentation to the surgery. It argued that the jurisdiction laudo only analyzed the current health status and did not make a judgment on the specific period of recovery, the object of the request. The embargos were rejected, under the following main grounds: “The embargant intends to rediscute the merit of appeal (appeal), unable by this way, demonstrating only inconformity regarding the conclusion of the trial, and seeking its analysis.” “There is no omission to be sancto.” Context: The judicial procedure on the specific period of convalescence, the object of the request.

The author claims, on the grounds of the Application for Uniformization, that the appealed judgment has ceased to assess the application for recognition of incapacity in the pre-territed period, and that the refusal of provision based on the absence of current incapacity represents a restrictive interpretation of the provisional legislation, in contradiction with the precedents of other Applications. To demonstrate the judicial divergence, it points out the following judgments paradigms: In the preliminary judgment of appealable admissibility, the Application for Uniformization has been inadmitted in the origin having been interposed Agravo, which was provided by the President of this TNU, which determined the remission of the Incident of Uniformization, through the distribution, to a member of this Collegiate. It is the law relating on the legal conflict. In the same case, the law relates the following judgments are contradicted: In the judgment of the judgment, the judgment of the judgment, the judgment of the judgment of

It is necessary to examine whether material law divergence has been demonstrated between the appealed judgment and the paradigms indicated . While the Turma of origin understood that the absence of labor incapacity at the time of the experience would remove the right to benefit, without assessing the allegation of incapacity in the post-operation period , the paradigm judgments of the TRs of the SJPE and the SJSP acknowledged that: Well. It should prevail the understanding signed in the paradigm judgments. The author proved: Although instated, the Recursal Turma rejected the embargments without facing the point, limiting itself to claim that there was no omission. Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent claim. The judgment proposed a judicial judgment: The judgment proposed a judicial judgment must prevail the same understanding signed in the paradigm judgments. The author demonstrated: Although instated, the Recursal has rejected the embargments without facing the point, the judgment

In this scenario, the appealed judgment ceased to evaluate documentary proof of incapacity in a specific period, and the legal matter (possibility of retroactive grant of the benefit) was decided in a divergent sense of consolidated jurisprudence . Thus, the case applies to the Order Question No. 20 of the TNU , approved in the 6th Ordinary Session, of 14/08/2006: Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Security order: judicial measure to protect the right net and correct when the responsible for ensuring that right to practice illegal act. Recourse: process instrument seeking a judicial decision.

“If the National Court decides that the uniformization incident must be known and provided in relation to the matter of law and if such conclusion implies in the need of examination of evidence on the matter of fact, which have been requested and not produced, or have been produced and not assessed by the lower instances, the judgment or judgment of the Court of Appeal should be cancelled so that such evidence may be produced or assessed, the judge of the 1st grade and the respective Court of Appeal are linked to the understanding of the National Court of Appeal on the matter of law.

“1. the absence of labor incapacity at the time of the expertise does not obstacle the grant of benefit by incapacity relating to the pre-territed period, provided that proofed the incapacity in the requested interval, especially in the result of a surgical event or documented treatment in the autos.” In front of the above, vote for PROVIMENTO to the National Application for Uniformization, with the cancellation of the judgment made by the 1st Court of Appeal of the SJMT, so that the unnamed appeal (appel) interposed by the author part is again assessed, with express confrontation of the allegation of pre-territed incapacity, in the light of the above fixed thesis.

In the final electronic document signed by LILIAN OLIVEIRA the same judicial judgment request different judgment instructions, Judge Rapporteur, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents in the process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process process.

For the purposes of this Agreement, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania (the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania, the Court of Justice of

The first judgment referred to in the cases analyzed the presence of current incapacity of the author’s part, removing it. However, in the seat of declaration embargos (motion for clarification) opposed by the author’s part, in which the existence of omission occurred, the source group did not specifically analyze its claim of the existence of pretérite incapacity, and its alleged right to the retroactive receipt of the same benefit. This omission prevented the formation of any controversy on the interpretation of the federal law of material law, which matters in the need for the cancellation of the judgment, by incidence of the Order Question in 47 of the National Turm of Uniformation (TNU): Legal Context: The legal procedure for the judicial claim of the existence of pretérite incapacity, and its alleged right to the receipt of the same benefit.

“In the case of expressly contested omission in declaration embargos (motion for clarification) in the origin, the cancellation of the judgment, by means of a request for uniformization (Question of Order No. 17 of this TNU), as long as presented a valid paradigm in the sense of the defended thesis.” Although I agree with the need for the cancellation of the judgment, I divide from Exma. Federal Judge Reporting in the point in which it proposes the fixation of the thesis to be followed by the Court of Appeal of origin, when the new judgment of the declaration embargos (motion for clarification).

Therefore, the possibility of granting benefit by retroactive incapacity, relating to the period of preterite incapacity, does not have to be discussed in effective formation of divergence in these cases. Only with the express manifestation of the Court of Appeal on the matter is that it can be caught, in the future, of any judicial divergence that authorizes the handling of incident of uniformization, circumstances that cannot be presumed by this Collegiate. Thus, it appears inadequate both the fixation of the thesis on the matter on which there is no effective controversy, as the determination that the origin of the Court of Appeal on these cases. In the future, it can be caught, of any judicial divergence that authorizes the handling of incident of uniformization, circumstances that cannot be presumed by this Collegiate.

In other words, even though there is no effective formation of controversy in the cases, the appealing party must, in order to apply this exceptional appeal, prove the possibility of its existence, by invoking a valid paradigm that supports the thesis it defended in the interpretation of the federal law of material law, as expressly required by the Order Question in the 47th Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent judge. In other words, even though there is no effective formation of controversy in the cases, the appealing party must demonstrate the possibility of its existence, by invoking a valid paradigm that supports the thesis it defended in the interpretation of the federal law of material law, as expressly required by the Order Question in the 47th Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent judge.

In front of the exposed, the judicial point itself requests a joint judgment to the request for uniformization by the author, to ANULATE the judgment issued by the 1st Court of Appeal of Mato Grosso at the headquarters of declaration embargations (motion for clarification), with the prelation of a new judgment, removing the omission indicated here. electronic document signed by JOÃO CARLOS CABRELON DE OLIVEIRA, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings, in the form of the judgment proceedings.

Confirmation of authenticity issued on 28/04/2025 16:08:06. SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Fund: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for judicial uniformization of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 1001592-60.2020.4.01.3601/ MT RELATOR : Federal Judge LILIAN OLIVEIRA DA COSTA TOURINHO REQUERENT : ALICE ARES DE RODRIGES (RODRIGES) (RODRIGES) (RODRIGES) (RODRIGES) (RODRIGES) (RODRIGES) (RODRIGES) (RIGES) (RODRIGES) (RIGES) (RIGES) (RIGES) (RIGES) (RIGES)

For the purposes of this Regulation, the Commission shall ensure that, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.

The Court of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania and the Council of the Republic of Lithuania.

The document on the authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao that=consulta_authenticity request_documents, through the completion of the verifier code 900000286941v3 and the CRC code 13d5a484 . Additional information of the signature: Signatory (a): JOÃO CARLOS CABRELON DE OLIVE Data and Hora: 15/04/2025, 09:48: Conference of authenticity of the law in the proceedings: 28/04/2020: Proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings of the proceedings.

RELATOR : Federal Judge LILIAN OLIVEIRA DA COSTA TOURINHO PRESIDENT : Minister ROGERIO SCHIETTI MACHADO CRUZ PROCURADOR(A) : BRASILINO PEREIRA DOS SANTOS REQUERENT : VANDERLEIA CINTRA MENDES ADVOGADO(A) : ALICE ARRAES DE SUUZA RODRIGUES (DPU) REQUERED request : INSTITUTE NATIONAL OF SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE INSTITUTE IN

In the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment in the case of an unlawful judgment.

RELATOR OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON THE GOVERNMENT ON