SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Fund: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Uniformization of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 0003757-82.2020.4.03.6304/ SP RELATOR : Federal Judge GIOVANI BIGOLIN REQUERENT : MENEZIO VIEIRA DE LIMA REQUERENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS RELATORY Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent claim.

It is a request for uniformization of interpretation of federal law (PEDILEF) interposed by the author and addressed to the National Tower of Uniformization of Jurisprudence of the Federal Special Judges (TNU), against judgment of the 10th Tower of Appeal of São Paulo, which gave provision to the unnamed appeal (appel) interposed by the INSS, in order to remove the period of special labor exercised from 13/01/1997 to 31/12/2016, in which the author part worked as “refratarist pedal” and “chairman I”, exposed occasional and intermittent to the chemical agent benzen – event 1, ACOR8 .

In its grounds, the author party claims the occurrence of discrepancy of understanding between the appealed judgment and the PEDILEF no. 0500667-18.2015.4.05.8312, Federal Court Relator Gisele Chaves Sampaio Alcântara, DJe 23/02/2017, according to which the measurement in the work environment (qualitative analysis) of exposure to the chemical agent powder of silica has been dismissed, because it is a recognizably carcinogenic element in humans, according to LINACH, Group 1, with registration in Chemical Abstract Service - CAS no. 014808-60-7 event 1, OUT9 .

Furthermore, it claims that there is no secure level of exposure to the harmful agent benzen, so that the quality exposure already guarantees you the right to the conversion of the special working period, because it is a cancer agent, reasons for which it postulates the admission of the federal uniformization application. The PEDILEF was not admitted in the origin ( event 1, DECADMPU13 ) and, after interposition of internal agraves, it was admitted by the Presidency of the National Assembly of Uniformization ( event 4, DESPADEC1 ). The deadline, without the presentation of contradictions by the opponent party, came the autos concluded for trial. It is the report. Pass to the decision. VOTO Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit the court's claim: the court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court's court.

The request for uniformization of the interpretation of federal law is provided in Article 14 of Law No. 10.259/2001, being acceptable when “there is a divergence between decisions on material legal matters made by the Court of Appeals in the interpretation of the law ”. For matters of material law, it is understood the controversial points of law, i.e., those alleging to the construction, from the statements of the normative texts, of the legal norm of the specific case, provided that, for the discontinuation of the controversy, it is not necessary the re-evaluation of evidence or the re-examination of the facts specifically discussed in the claim. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

In order to demonstrate the divergence, it is necessary the confrontation of the appealed judgment with the paradigm judgment of Turma Recursal (or Regional) of a different region, of the TNU itself or of the STJ (Article 14, § 4o). It is also possible that it is used, for such purposes, enunciated summary of the TNU or of the STJ. In regard to the specific judicial object, versa the present incident on the possibility of conversion of the same period of special labor in common against the exposure of the author to the damaging agent, in an eventual and intermittent way, for the purpose of reviewing the benefit of retirement for the time of contribution of which the owner is from 08/07/2019.

Federal Judge CAIO MOYSÉS DE LIMA: It is an action (lawsuit) brought by MENEZIO VIEIRA DE LIMA in front of the NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS, which has the object of the review of retirement for the time of contribution, from the date of entry of the administrative application (DER), on 08/07/2019, through the computing of special activity exercised in the period from 13/01/1997 to 31/12/2016. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

The judgment (judgment) judged partially proceeding the request, condemning the defendant to (i) averbar, as special service time, the period from 13/01/1997 to 31/12/2016; (ii) review the retirement for the author's contribution time, from 08/07/2019 (DIB); and (iii) pay the accumulated differences, in accordance with the Manual of Procedure for the Calculations in the Federal Justice, in force at the time of the judge's execution. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

The prosecutor claims, in synthesis, that (i) the exposure to the chemical agent was given occasionally and intermittently; (ii) the fact that the assessment of the benzen is qualitative, does not imply the unnecessary to identify its concentration in the work environment; (iii) in the case of the accusations it has not been proven that the presence of the benzen in the judicial work environment in concentration itself exceeds the limit of detection, the joint exposure is infime and irrelevant for the purposes of occupational hygiene; and (iv) the profissiography is incompatible with the exposure to the benzen, in the absence of the usuality and permanence.

From the entry into force of Law No. 9.032/95 it passed to require the usuality and permanence of exposure to the harmful agent. Thus, it is necessary to affirm case by case, based on the description of the activity exercised by the insured, if the exposure to the harmful agent constituted an intrinsic and indissociable aspect of the exercise of the said activity. In this case, in the controversial period, the author exercised the activities of “refratarist worker” and “dealer I”, so described in the PPP : The document expressly mentions that “the work exercised in the area referred to the chemical agent Benzeno, is carried out occasional and intermittent” . Legal context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent judgment: the judgment proposes the judgment of the judgment: the judgment proposes of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the judgment of the

Therefore, it is noted that the exposure to the benzen was occasional, i.e. it was not indissociable from the duties of the author's office, which prevents the recognition of the activity as special. In front of the exposed, vote for giving provision to the appeal (appel) of the party re , to judge improcedent the action (lawsuit). Without condemnation in fees, because only the claimant defeated must arca with the subsequent funds, in accordance with article 55 of the Law No. 9.099/95, combined with article 1 of the Law No. 10.259/2001. It is the vote." Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Sentence: definitive decision made by a judge in the processing phase of a judicial mandate: right to protect the right of the court, in accordance with article 55 of the Law No. 9.099/95, combined with article 1 of the Law No. 259/2001.

In its grounds, the author party claims the occurrence of discrepancy of understanding between the appealed judgment and the PEDILEF no. 0500667-18.2015.4.05.8312, Federal Court Relator Gisele Chaves Sampaio Alcântara, DJe 23/02/2017, according to which the measurement in the work environment (qualitative analysis) of exposure to the chemical agent powder of silica has been dismissed, because it is a recognizably carcinogenic element in humans, according to LINACH, Group 1, with registration in Chemical Abstract Service - CAS no. 014808-60-7 event 1, OUT9 .

Furthermore, it claims that there is no secure level of exposure to the harmful agent benzen, so that the quality exposure already guarantees you the right to the conversion of the special working period, because it is a cancer agent, reasons for which it postulates the admission of the federal uniformization request. Initially, in relation to the content of the paradigm judgment, it is to be noted that there was no necessary analytical quotation between the appealed judge and the understanding of the TNU in the appeal part by the author, circumstances that attract the application of article 14, V, 'c', of the RITNU.

The appealing party was limited to refer to PEDILEF no. 0500667-18.2015.4.05.8312, in which the work environment measurement (qualitative analysis) of exposure to the chemical agent silica powder was dismissed because it is a recognizably cancerogen element in humans, according to LINACH, Group 1, with registration in the Chemical Abstract Service - CAS no. 014808-60-7, without carrying out the appropriate analytical quotation, without comparing its terms and foundations with those adopted by the appeal, in order to raise the controversy.

In this point, it should be noted that the mere indication of the alleged dissidence in the body of the text of the Application for Uniformation is not sufficient without the applicant demonstrating, in a detailed and analytical way, that for the same factual situation have been given different interpretations or legal solutions. In the case, I observe that the applicant author has not dismissed to perform the appropriate analytical quotation that allows to verify the factual-juridical similarity between the appealed judgment and the paradigm judgment of the TNU. There has not been the examination and confrontation of the factual and legal situation contained in the judgment quoted with the now combated judgment, having merely transcription of trechos.

Furthermore, proceeding to the analytical quotation between the judge of origin and the paradigm pointed out in this appeal path, it is also verified the absence of factical and legal similarity between the appeal judgment and the collated arrest in terms of the controversial issue in the autos. It is seen that the appeal judgment distracted the speciality of labor in the face of the possible and intermittent judicial exposure of the author’s part, in the exercise of the position of “refratarist practitioner” and “dealer I”, to the damaging agent benzeno , the situation that does not amolate to the paradigm judgment collated in the appeal reasons (event 1, OUT9 ), which, in that specific case, was analyzed to the exposure to the damaging party on the mineral process: the court’s proceeding to the court’s eventual and intermittent court’s point, in the exercise of the position of “refratarist practition” and “dealer I”, to the competitive judgment for a different measure.

In this context, it is verified that the author party did not present a valid paradigm to prove the divergence with the judgment objurgated in matter of material law, so little proved the factical and legal similarity between the trials in examination, not therefore meeting the requirements of article 14, of Law no. 10.259/2001. In addition, it is to be highlighted that the Court of Appeal of origin, through sovereign analysis of the proof asset, concluded that the intermittent exposure of the author party to the chemical agent benzeno cannot be considered special after 29/04/1995, faced with the survival of Law no. 9.032/95, being indispensable the permanent, non occasional or intermittent exposure to the harmful agent, that the legal activity is qualified as special.

This time, the analysis of the proof acquis produced in the fact, in which it consists in the description of the activities carried out by the author in the use of benzen, as well as the need for the production of proof regarding the specification of the harmful agents to which it was exposed in the performance of the labor as "refratarist worker" and "member I", is a matter that refuses to the limits from the request for uniformization, in the express terms of Summary 42: It is not known of an incident of uniformization that involves reexamination of the matter of fact.

The electronic document on illegal judicial decision signed by Giovani BIGOLIN, Federal Court of Justice, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents in the judicial process point, by request of the various measurement code instruments in the processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing.

Application for Uniformization of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 0003757-82.2020.4.03.6304/ SP RELATOR : Federal Judge GIOVANI BIGOLIN REQUERENT : MENEZIO VIEIRA DE LIMA REQUERENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS EMENTA request for federal uniformization. previdenciario. special retirement. chemical agent benzeno. eventual and intermittent exposure. absence of analytical quotation and factual similarity. reexamination of factical matter. summary 42 of tnu. request unknown. legal context: legal procedure used to submit a claim to a competent judge. judgment: definitive decision proposed by a judicial processing stage. chemical agent benzeno. possible and intermittent exposure. absence of analytical quotation and factual similarity. reexamination of factical matter. summary 42 of tnu. request unknown.

1. request for uniformization of interpretation of federal law (PEDILEF) interposed by the author and addressed to the National Court of Uniformization of Jurisprudence of the Federal Special Judges (TNU), against judgment of the 10th Court of Appeal of São Paulo, which gave provision to the unnamed appeal (appel) interposed by the INSS, in order to remove the period of special labor exercised from 13/01/1997 to 31/12/2016, in which the author part worked as “refratarist practitioner” and “major I”, exposed occasional and intermittent to the chemical agent benzen.

The author of the judgment claims the occurrence of discrepancy of understanding between the appealed judgment and the PEDILEF no. 0500667-18.2015.4.05.8312, Federal Court Relator Gisele Chaves Sampaio Alcântara, DJe 23/02/2017, according to which the measurement in the work environment (qualitative analysis) of exposure to the chemical agent silica powder has been dismissed because it is a recognized cancerogen element in humans, according to LINACH, Group 1, with registration in Chemical Abstract Service - CAS no. 014808-60-7.

The object of appeal verses on the possibility of conversion of the special period of work in common facing the author’s exposure to the harmful agent benzen, in an eventual and intermittent way, for the purpose of reviewing the retirement benefit for the time of contribution of which it is the owner since 08/07/2019. 4. In relation to the content of the paradigm judgment, it is to be noted that there was no necessary analytical quotation between the appealed judge and the understanding of the TNU in the appeal part by the author, circumstances that attract the application of article 14, V, ‘c’, of the RITNU.

5. the absence of factical and legal similarity between the appealed judgment and the collated arrest in relation to the controversial issue in the autos, since the appealed judgment distracted the speciality of labor in the face of the eventual and intermittent exposure of the author’s part, in the exercise of the post of “refratarist pedestrian” and “callery I”, to the harmful agent benzen, situation that does not contradict the judgment paradigm collated in the appeal reasons, since, in that case in particular, the exposure to the harmful agent mineral powder (silikon) for the insured who exercised agropecuary activity.

The analysis of the proof acquis produced in the fact, in which it consists in the description of the activities carried out by the author in the use of benzen, as well as the need to produce proof regarding the specification of the harmful agents to which it was exposed in the performance of the labor as “refratarist worker” and “callery I”, is a matter that refuses to the limits from the application for uniformization, in the express terms of Summary 42 of the TNU. 7. request for uniformization unknown.

The electronic document on the same illegal judgment point signed by Giovani BIGOLIN, Federal Judge, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents that by the request of the judgment code of the various measurement instruments in the form of the judgment code 900000285199v5 and the CRC code 0f5507a3 . Additional information of the signature: Signator (a): Giovani BIGOLIN Date and Time: 11/04/2025, at 15:12:04 the authenticity conference issued at 28/04/2025 parts.

President : Minister ROGERIO SCHIETTI point contradiction the same final measure judgment MACHADO CRUZ PROCURADOR(A) : BRASILINO PEREIRA DOS SANTOS REQUERENT : MENEZIO VIEIRA DE LIMA ADVOGADO(A) : DANIELA APARECIDA FLAUSINO NEGRINI (OAB SP241171) REQUERED : INSTITUTO Judicial NATIONAL OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS request that the judgment was included in the Decision of the Virtual Session, held in the period of 03/04/2025, at 00:00, at 09/04/2025, at 23:59, in the sequence 69, available in DE 25/03/2025.

Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA Votant: Federal Judge FABIO DE SUZA SILVA V