SCES, TRECHO 3, Sector of Sports Clubs South - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Neighborhood: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Fountain: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for uniformization of interpretation of law (Turma) No 0000417-79.2023.4.05.8500/ SE RELATOR : Federal Judge PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO REQUISITED : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS REQUISITED : MARIA DA CONCEICAO DE JES RELATORY Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent judgment on a judgment proposed judgment.

It is a national uniformization request made by the INSS in the face of a judgment issued by the Court of Appeal of Sergipe, which denied provision to its appeal (appel) andined the judgment (judgment) of proceedings relating to the tax benefit by incapacity, having recognised the validity of the contributions made by the author, in the period of 01/05/2021 and 30/04/2023, in the condition of optional low-income insurance. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase.

The Court of Appeal claims that the appealed judgment, having confirmed the judgment (judgment) on its own grounds, differed from the precedent established by TNU in the trial of the representative subject no. 241, by recognizing the validity of the contributions paid by the author as a facultative low-income insurance, though the existence of news in the cases on the informal exercise by the same of the activity of the caregiver of elderly, perceiving around R$3,000,00/month, which would frame it in the condition of individual taxpayer.

A preliminary judgment of admissibility by the Chairman of the TNU recognizes that there are indications of the divergence arising ( event 4, DOC1 ), after the interposition of agravo in the judges themselves ( event 1, DOC14 ). The conclusion of the judges for trial came. VOTO Consistent with Art. 14 of Law No. 10.259/2001, “There will be a request for uniformization of the interpretation of federal law when there is a divergence between decisions on material legal matters made by the Court of Appeal in the interpretation of the law.” Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase. Mandate of security: to protect the right net and when the right to ensure that the right to exercise it is illegal.

In accordance with Article 12, § 1, of the Internal Regime of this National Uniformation Tower (Resolution No. 586, of 30 September 2019), it is appropriate for the author of the Application for Uniformation to demonstrate, as regards the matter of material law, the existence of divergence in the interpretation of the federal law between the appealed decision and the decision made by the Court of Appeal or Regional linked to another Federal Regional Court or summary or dominant understanding of the Higher Court of Justice or the National Uniformation Tower. The appealed judgment confirmed the judgment (judgment), valid by the technique of trial per relation authorized by Article 46 of Law 9.099/95.

In fact, the situation deserves a focus focused on the perspective of constitutional protection to the right to caution and trust, without prejudice to the contributive character of the social security system decision. In the beginning, it is appropriate to recognize the objective character of the official information provided by the authority on the official page, updated on 11.2020 (https://www.gov.br/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/

Optional low-income is a form of contribution to the INSS with the reduced value of 5% of the minimum wage. This modality is exclusive for man or woman of low-income families and that is dedicated exclusively to domestic work within the scope of their residence (home donation) and has no own income. (...) There is therefore no post-stage registration of the validation of the contributions, there is also no forecast of formal notification to the taxpayer about any irregularities in the collection. Such relevant omission generates legitimate expectation of tax coverage, especially taking into account the client of the service, low-income insurance, regulated by the Federal Constitution in article 201, § 12: Legal Context: The legal procedure: The legal procedure used to submit a legal claim to a legal proceedings, there is also no forecast of formal notification to the taxpayer about any irregularities in the collection. Such relevant omission generates legitimate expectation of tax coverage, especially taking into account of the client of the service, low-income insurance, regulated by the Federal Constitution

There is no way to escape, therefore, of the constitutional shape, which requires domestic work within the framework of the residence itself. However, such assertion does not imply the absence of the provisional coverage, considering the constitutional framework that ensures the right to provision within their residence, as long as they belong to low-income families, guaranteeing them access to benefits of value equal to a minimum wage. There is no way to escape, therefore, of the constitutional shape, which requires domestic work within the framework of the residence itself. However, such assertion does not imply the absence of the provisional coverage, considering the constitutional framework that ensures the right to provision within their residence (Article 6), the universality in the coverage of social security (Article 194, paragraph, I) and the contribution of the provisional contribution on the legal provision.

The legal question that embodies the irresignation of the INSS in this fact is identical to that object of uniformization by e. TNU in the Theme 241 of the representative PEDILEFs, in which the following thesis was approved: The exercise of remunerated activity, although informal and of low economic expression, obstacles the framework as an optional low-income insured, in the form of article 21, §2, II, paragraph 'b', of Law 8.212/91, preventing the validation of the contributions collected under the quota of 5%.

In prestige to the hygiene and consistency of the preceding system, it must be observed the crystallized legal decision in the above thesis reproduced, here is that it has remained proven in the authors that the author informally exercises the activity of caregiver of elderly, losing around R$ 3.000,00/month, which would encompass it in the condition of individual taxpayer and not facultative low income! (...) In view of the above, after regular CONNECTION and processing of this Internal/Regimental Agreement, the NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY – INSS, represented by AGU, requires: Preliminally, due to the clear irreversibility of the measure, requires the REVERATION OF THE ANTECADA; b) in the MÉRITO: the reversion of the judicial process on this point of legal provision, in order to ensure that the legal provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision

However, the appeal (appel) must be denied, whether because the decision is based on a qualified decision, or because it is based on the whole of the evidence produced during the proceedings."In turn, the thesis fixed on the representative issue no. 241, so directed the controversy: The exercise of paid activity, although informal and of low economic expression, obstacles the framework as an optional low-income insured, in the form of article 21, §2, II, paragraph 'b', of Law 8.212/91, preventing the validation of the contributions collected under the allocation of 5% Legal Context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

I think it’s not the case of application of Summary 42 of the TNU, because the dispute does not depend on rebound of factic matter, since the Turma of origin, even considering the perception of own income by the author, in an informal way, in the condition of caregiver of elderly, decided to frame it as an optional low-income insured, under various arguments of legal order, for example of “good faith”, “violation of the principle of confidence”, “inexistence of subsequent stage of validation of the contributions paid by the claimed insured”, “creation of legitimate expectations by the same forecasting protection”, among other grounds.

While the paradigm of this TNU, at its turn, decided to decaracterize the condition of optional low-income insured in the hypothesis of performance of paid activity, although informal and low-economic impact. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processual phase. Security mandate: judicial measure to protect net and correct right when the responsible for ensuring that right to exercise an illegal act. Recourse: processual instrument that seeks to review a judicial decision. Dispute: joint participation of different parties in the same judicial action. Declaration of claims: claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims of claims.

Therefore, it is the case of application of the issue of order No. 20 (If the National Court decides that the uniformization incident must be known and provided in relation to the matter of law and if such conclusion implies in the need of examination of evidence on the matter of fact, which have been requested and not produced, or have been produced and not assessed by the lower instances, the judgment (judgment) or judgment of the same Court Court of Appeal shall be cancelled in order that such evidence is produced or assessed, the judge of 1st grade and the respective Court of Appeal shall be linked to the understanding of the National Court of Appeal on the matter of law), with the cancellation of the judgment, so that the other party may be proposed in its place, respecting the legal prerequisition on the subject of law.

In front of the exposed, vote for accepting and giving provision to the application for uniformization of the INSS, in accordance with the issue of order no. 20. electronic document signed by PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO, Judge Rapporteur, in the form of Article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The judicial conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/external_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents, by filling the verifier code 900000285187v6 and the code CRCe 254b09 . Additional information of the signature: (PAULO ROBERTO DE: ROBERTO DE: ROBERTO: ROBERTO: ROBERTO: ROBERTO: ROBERTO: ROBERTO: ROBERTO:

SCES, TRECHO point 3, Judicial Controversy Sector South Sports Clubs - Pole 8 - Lote 9 - District Decision: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Found: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Unification of Law Interpretation (Turma) No 0000417-79.2023.4.05.8500/ SE Application for the Judicial Controversy: Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure Procedure

It is a national uniformization request made by the INSS against the judgment of the Prosecutor's Tower of Sergipe, whichined the judgment (judgment) favorable to the recognition of the quality of an optional low-income insured and not an optional low-income insured by the author, validating the tax contributions issued in the period from 01/05/2021 to 30/04/2023 . The INSS claims that the appealed judgment differs from the thesis established in Theme 241 of the TNU , since the author exercises informally paid activity as a caregiver of elderly, perceiving about R$ 3,000.00 monthly , which would frame it as an individual taxpayer and not as an optional low-income insured . Legal context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent judgment.

The incident was not admitted in the origin, under the allegation that it would demand return of factic matter (TNU Summary 42). However, in the admissibility judgment, the TNU Presidency recognized the existence of jurisprudential divergence, giving follow to the incident. II. QUESTION IN DISCUSION The question in question consists in knowing whether the exercise of remunerated activity, although informal and of low economic expression, prevents the framework of the insured as a low-income facultative, in accordance with Article 21, § 2, II, 'b', of Law No. 8.212/1991 . III. DECISION RAZES According to Article 14 of the Law No. 10.25/2001 , the unified judgment on the legal divergence point of the judgment is declared that the legal divergence point of the judgment, although informal and of low economic expression, prevents the framework of the insured sentence by a certain measure.

Theme 241 of the TNU signed the following thesis: "The exercise of paid activity, although informal and of low economic expression, obstacles the framework as an informally paid activity in the form of article 21, §2o, II, paragraph 'b', of Law no. 8.212/91, preventing the validation of the contributions collected under the 5% bill."In the specific case, the Sergey Court of Appeal validated the contributions of the author as an informal low-income insurance, although it acknowledges that it exercises informally paid activity.

Therefore, it is not a return of factic matter, but a mistake in the legal interpretation of the specific case, since the Turma itself recognized that the author party owned own income, which prevents the characterization of the judge as an optional insured of low income subject. By applying the Order Question No. 20 of the TNU, the appealed judgment must be cancelled, determining that a new judgment is made in accordance with the same thesis established in Subject 241.

The exercise of the same remunerated activity, although informal and of low economic expression, prevents the framework as an optional low-income insured, in accordance with article 21, § 2, II, 'b', of Law no. 8.212/1991. 2. The validation of the contributions paid under the 5% allocation requires the proof of the non-existence of any judicial form of own income by the insured." Relevant legislation quoted: Law no. 8.212/1991, article 21, § 2, II, 'b'; Law no. 10.259/2001, article 14.

The electronic document signed by PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO, Judge Rapporteur, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents requested by the judgment, by filling the measure of the verifier code 900000285194v4 and the CRC code f7e831ea.

RELATOR : Federal judge co-afferent decision PAULO ROBERTO PARCA DE PINHO PRESIDENT : Minister ROGERIO SCHIETTI MACHADO CRUZ PROCURADOR(A) : BRASILINO PEREIRA DOS SANTOS REQUERENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS REQUERED on : MARIA DA CONCEICAO DE JESUS ADVOGADO(A) : PAULO FERNANDA request action different measures in order to make a decision in the NUNES (OAB SP494256) Certificate that this proceedings were included in the Virtual Session, held in the period of 03/04/2025, at 00:00, at 09/04/2025, at 23:59, in the sequence 89, available on 25/03/205.

RELATOR OF THE ACORD RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR RELATOR