SCES, TRECHO 3, Judicial Conjury Decision in Final South Sports Clubs - Polo 8 - Lote 9 - Quarter Decision: Asa South - CEP: 70200-003 - Fund: (61) 3022-7000 - www.cjf.jus.br - Email: turma.uniformi@cjf.jus.br Application for Unification of Procedure on Law Interpretation (Turma) No 0004369-31.2013.4.03.6315/ SP Application for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure for Procedure Procedure for Procedure Procedure for Procedure Procedure for Procedure Procedure Procedure for Procedure Proced

Here are the foundations of the monocratic judge ( Event 1 – SENT2 ): It is an action (lawsuit) through which the author party claims the revision of the benefit of aid-sickness origin NB 31/505.001.182-1, granted on 1st/12/2000, with reflections on the benefit of retirement for disability derived from it (NB 32/505.172.488-0). Joined documents. The same re was given by quoted offering the contestation. Decided. The right to appeal the revision of the benefit expires, in accordance with the provisions of Law 9.528/97. This law gave a new edition to article 103 of Law 8.213/91 in the following terms: Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit the claim to a judicial judge: The judge proposed a final judgment for the proposed judgment.

It is ten years the deadline of decadence of all and any right or action (lawsuit) of the insured or beneficiary for the review of the act of concession of benefit, starting from the first day of the month following the receipt of the first benefit or, where appropriate, from the day on which the right to the review was already confirmed by the legal decree. The author's part had the benefit of aid-sickness granted on 1st/12/2000. The first payment of the benefit was made on 19/02/2001. So, on 01/03/2001 began the decadential deadline for requiring the review. The action (lawsuit) was helped on 16/07/2013, more than ten years from the date of the concession, when the right to the review was already confirmed by the legal decree. Context: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings: The legal proceed

Therefore, I extinguish the proceedings with a merit resolution pursuant to Article 269, IV, of the Civil Procedure Code, therefore there are no financial reflections in the invalidity pension, mentioned in the original. At the headquarters of the retreat trial, the Collegiate of Origin ruled in the following terms (Event 1- ACOR9): RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED RELATED.

It is a request for revision of the calculation of the initial monthly income of the pre-financial benefit decision, by application of article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91, in the draft of Law 9.876/99. In judgment (judgment), the request was judged improcedent, being declared the decadence of the law. The court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court court

I understand that there is no need to speak in the counting of decadence from the benefit of invalidity or death pension, since in cases where the aid-sickness gives them origin, the use of the salary-contribution immediately prior to the distribution of the laboratory activity of the insured, which coincides with the PBC of aid-sickness, i.e., the same salary-benefit of aid-sickness is used on which the percentage of the pension (100%) is placed, all in accordance with the understanding buried by the Supreme Court (RE 583.834/SC).

It is important to mention that in the same sense of the decision of this college, the STJ also understood in the AgRg judgment in REsp 1222079 of 09/09/2013, in which a death pension revision was sought from special retirement: ...IV. In the species, the death pension resulting from retirement for service time, retirement with date of start on 14/03/1994, being subject to the decadence period, the initial term of which is on 28.06.1997.

In turn, despite the understanding of the TNU, I understand that the material nature of the decadence of the right pledged by the author does not interrupt by the proposition of the collective claim, although the Civil Action (lawsuit) Public has recognized to all beneficiaries the right to the review in question, there is a difference at this point between decadence and prescription, since this latter admits the judicial interruption. In this line, it is also not to be said that the administrative act of recognition the right to the review of the benefits that took into account for the calculation of their values of 100% of the salary-de-contribution in the respective PBC (instead of the larger 80%), interrupt the decadence.

For example, it is not possible to use the data for the purposes of the application, but it is not possible to use the data for the purposes of the application, and it is not possible to use the data for the purposes of the application, and it is not possible to use the data for the purposes of the application, and it is not possible to use the data for the purposes of the application.

With the decision that denied the incident in the origin, the Minister President of the TNU (Event 1 – DEC10) determined the surrender of the fact in the origin until the definitive positioning of the STJ regarding PEDILEF no. 5004459-91.2013.4.04.7101, judged under the rite of the representatives of the dispute ( Theme 134 ), by application of the QO 23/TNU.

The President of the TNU followed the incident ( Event 8 ), asserting that “there are indications of the divergence raised, since the understanding of the appealed judgment differs, in principle, from the position adopted in the court arrest as a paradigm ”. It is what it must report. Step to decide. VOTO The request for uniformization of the federal law interpretation is provided in article 14 of Law No. 10.259/2001, being acceptable when “there is a divergence between decisions on material law issues made by the Court of Appeal in the interpretation of the law ”. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision proposed by a judge in the processing phase of a federal law interpretation is provided in Article 14 of Law No. 10.259/2001, being acceptable when “there is a divergence between decisions on material law issues made by the Court of Appeal in the interpretation of the law ”.

For matter of material law, the controversial points of law, i.e. those alleging to the construction, from the enunciations of the normative texts, of the legal norm of the specific case, provided that, for the dissolution of the controversy, it is not necessary the re-evaluation of evidence or the re-examination of the facts specifically discussed in the claim. To demonstrate the divergence, it is necessary the confrontation of the judgment appealed with the same paradigm judgment of the Court of Appeal of a different region, of the TNU itself or of the STJ (Article 14, § 4). It is also possible that it is used, for such purposes, the enunciation of the summary of the TNU or the STJ. Well! Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a competent claim.

From the analysis of the proposed Uniformization Incident, it is realized that, in fact, there is a jurisprudential dispute between the appealed judgment ( Event 1 – SENT2 ) and the presented paradigm ( Event 01 – PEDIUNIFNAC7 ) , about the consumption of decadence in the hypothesis of revision of the benefit on the basis of article 29, paragraph II, of Law No. 8.213/91. Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

In fact, the appealed judgment understood that the counting of the decadencial period (Article 103, caput, of Law 8.213/9) begins from the original benefit (help-sickness), therefore, in the case there are no financial reflections in the invalidity pension, since it was granted more than 10 years ago from the date of the judgment of the action (lawsuit). The previous paradigm , in turn, points out that the decadencial period does not distract the right to review the benefit transformed even if it has to be recalculated the earnings of the previous aid-sickness granted more than ten years ago.

As for the subject in debate, it is sedimented understanding in this National Uniformation Tower that the decadence by the administrative recognition of the law, perpetrated by the Circular Memorandum Joint 21/DIRBENS/PFEINSS so that only decaded the right to review the initial benefits granted more than ten years ago, from 15 April of 2.010 . Thus understood this National Uniformation Tower, at the headquarters of representative of dispute ( Theme 134 ), verbis : Legal Context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge. Judgment: final decision made by a judge ending a processal phase Mandate of security: to safeguard the right and to guarantee the right to practice this illegal act: appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal to appeal.

"The National Court of Uniformation of the Federal Special Judges (TNU) unanimously denied, in the session of 12 May, the request for incident of uniformization requested by the National Institute of Social Security (INSS), which pleaded for the reform of the decision of the Court of Appeal of Rio Grande do Sul, which adopted the non-incidence of decadence and prescription in matters involving the review of the tax benefit derived from another, due to the publication of the Circular-Council Memorandum No. 21/DIRBEN/PFEINN of the Court of Appeal.

According to the judgments, the appealed decision understood that “not incides the decadence, in the species, on the grounds that, on 15 April 2.010, with the edition of the aforementioned memorandum passed to be administered the benefits of aid-sickness and invalidity retirement, already with the correct observance of article 29-II, of Law 8.213/91, recognizing the right of the insured to the administrative review of the benefits in maintenance.” Legal context: Action: legal procedure used to submit a claim to the competent judge.

As regards the prescription, the Gaúcha recursal group quoted lastre in precedent of its own TNU (PEDILEF 001.2958.85.2008.4.03.6315), which agreed that the advent of the memorandum imported the tacit renunciation by the INSS to the prescription deadlines, “which returned to run integrally from its publication; he also stated that for the administrative or judicial requests formulated within the five-year period of the publication of that memorandum does not affect the prescription, reversing the financial effects of the review to the date of the grant of the benefit reviewing.”

The INSS, in turn, argued that the memorandum itself had no condemnation to generate the decadencial and prescription interruption, which is why the part of the case in consideration did not justify the review of the initial monthly income (RMI), as it was granted. In the National Uniformation Hall, the case was by the federal judge José Henrique Guaracy Rebêlo. The judge understood that the provision to the request for uniformization of the INSS should be denied so that the decision of the appeal group wasined. The judge was seized in previous judgments by the Court itself: PEDILEF 501594420124047112 and PEDILEF 001295-888.2008.43.315, as the final reaffirmation of the parties on the court's judgment: PEDE is seeking a legal provision point of provision of the INSS. In order to procure a different measure or provision of a legal provision for a legal provision of a legal provision.

In conclusion, Guaracy Rebêlo proposed, followed by the Collegiate, that the TNU, in the systematic of the representatives of controversy, fix the following theses: (1) the review of the retirement benefit for disability resulting from the conversion of the aid-sickness in accordance with Article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91, is subject to the decade period provided for in Article 103 of Law No. 8.213/91, whose initial framework is the date of the grant of the original benefit; (2) the decade by the administrative recognition of the right, perpetrated by the Circular Memorandum 21/DIRBENS/PINSS of only decade the right to the conversion of the aid-sickness in accordance with Article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91, is subject to the decade period provided in Article 103 of Law No.

(3) the publication of the Memorandum 21/DIRBEN/PFEINSS, of 15-4-2010, administrative act that recognised the right of the insured to review by article 29, II, of Law 8.213/91, imported the tacit renunciation by the INSS to the current prescription deadlines, which have returned to run entirely from its publication ; (4) for administrative or judicial requests formulated within the period of 5 (five) years of the publication of the joint regulatory act reference does not affect the prescription, reversing the financial effects of the review to the date of granting the benefit reviewing . (PEDILEF no. 5004459-91.2013.4.04.7101, report.

Therefore, it is mysterious the provision of the appeal (appel) of the author’s part, and the proceedings must return to the origin for the adequacy of the judge. Therefore, vote by CONHECER AND GIVE PROVIMENT to the incident, to return the case to the Court’s origin for the adequacy of the judge to the Theme 134/TNU, in accordance with the Order Question in 20/TNU. Legal Context: Legal procedure used to submit a claim to a competent judge. Judgment: Final decision must return to the origin for the adequacy of the judge. Therefore, vote by CONHECER AND GIVE PROVIMENT to the incident, to return the case to the Court’s origin for the adequacy of the judge to the Theme 134/TNU, in accordance with the Order Question in 20/TNU.

The electronic document signed by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULA EMILIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA MOURA conclusive judgment requested by PAULIA

REQUIRENT : ATAILDE RODRIGUES DE CARVALHO REQUIRED : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS VOTO-VISTA This is a request for an opinion formulated by my predecessor in the National Uniformation Hall. By carefully evaluating the case, I verify that the vote given by the then Rapporteur ( event 15, RELVOTO1 ) is in contradiction with the request for a judgment by the National Uniformation Hall of representative issues of dispute 120 (PEDILEF no. 5007045-38.2012.4.04.7101/RS) and 134 (PEDILEF no. 5004459-91.2013.4.04.7101/RS), in which the following texts are fixed: Legal Context: The legal proceedings: The legal proceedings are in contradiction with the request for a judgment by the National Uniformation Hall of action.

Theme 120 - The review of the retirement benefit for invalidity resulting from the conversion of the aid-sickness, in accordance with Article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91, is subject to the decade period provided in Article 103 of Law No. 8.213/91, whose initial frame is the date of granting the original benefit. The decade period for judicial review by Article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91 is initiated from 15/04/2010, due to the administrative recognition of the law, perpetrated by the Circular Memorandum No. 21/DIRBENS/PFEINSS.

Theme 134 - The review of the pension benefit for invalidity resulting from the conversion of the aid-sickness, in accordance with Article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91, is subject to the decadential period provided in Article 103 of the same Law, whose initial frame is the date of granting the original benefit. The decadential period for review by Article 29, II, of Law No. 8.213/91 is begun from 15/04/2010, due to the administrative recognition of the law, perpetrated by the Circular Memorandum No. 21/DIRBENS/PFEINSS.

However, there has been the repeated issue 1.220 by the Supreme Court, whose controversy consists just in "Defining whether the Circular Memorandum Joint 21/DIRBEN/PFEINSS establishes an interruptive framework of the prescritional deadline of the claims for revision of tax benefit, in accordance with article 202, VI, of the Civil Code."From the above, the vote for overcoming this fact to wait for the judgment by the Supreme Court of the topic 1.220.

Electronic document on the same illegal judicial point signed by RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA in the form of the measure of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity_documents that processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing processing process.

GUSTAVO DE CARVALHO MOREIRA (OAB SP251591) Required: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS PREVIDENCIARY EMENTA. Request for UNIFORMIZATION IN NATIONAL. PARCELAS DECORRENTES OF REVISION ADMINISTRATIVE Procedure Parts: PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION PREVISION.

The electronic document on the same illegal judgment point signed by the joint judgment RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA, Rapporteur of the judgment, in the form of article 1, paragraph III, of Law 11.419, of 19 December 2006. The conference of authenticity of the document is available at the electronic address https://eproctnu.cjf.jus.br/eproc/externo_controlador.php?acao=consulta_authenticity requests action instruments in different measures, by filling in the verifier code 900000286853v4 and the CRC code 08ecb64a. Additional information of the signature: Signatory (a): RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FECA Data and at 15/0425, 18:47 parts of authenticity of the judgment in this procedure: Procedure for a pro-procedure pro-procedure of the judgment of the judgment:

RELATOR : Federal judge PAULA EMILIA MOURA ARAGAO DE SOUSA BRASIL PRESIDENT : Minister MARCO AURÉLIO BELLIZZE OLIVEIRA PROCURADOR(A) : ANTONIO CARLOS PESSOA LINS REQUERENT : ATAILDE RODRIGUES DE CARVALHO ADVOGADO(A) : GUSTAVO DE CARVALHO MOREIRA judicial decision (OAB SP251591) REQUERENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS Certificate that this proceedings were included in the Virtual Session, held in the period of 11/1023, at 00:00, at 19/1023, at 23:59, in the sequence of the 23rd part of the DECISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISCISC

After the same vote of the judicial ruling RELATOR PAULA EMILIA MOURA requests different judgment measure ARAGAO DE SOUSA BRASIL in the sentence of knowing and proving the incident, PEDIU VISTA, ANTECIPAMENTE, the Federal Judge in the lawful process LEONARDO AUGUSTO DE ALMEIDA AGUIAR. AGUARDAM the parties on the lawful process. Voting: the Federal Judge in the lawful process PAULA EMILIA MOURA requests different judgment measure ARAGAO DE SOUSA BRASIL requests view: the Federal Judge LEONARDO AUGUSTO DE ALMEIDA AGUIAR VIVIANE DE COSTA LEITE BORTOLINI Secretary the authenticity conference issued on 28/04/2025 16:12:51.

REQUIREMENT : ATAILDE RODRIGUES DE CARVALHO ADVOGADO(A) : GUSTAVO DE CARVALHO MOREIRA (OAB SP251591) REQUIREMENT : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL SECURITY - INSS Certificate that this proceedings were included in the Virtual Session Palais, held in the period of 03/04/2025, at 00:00, at 09/04/2025, at 23:59, in sequence 203, available in DE 25/03/2025. Certificate that the NATIONAL TURMA OF UNIFORMIZATION, by assessing the authors of the proceedings in epígrafe, made the following decision: Legal Context: The legal procedure used to submit a claim to a competent judge.

Procedure of the same legal judgment on the final judgment, after the judgment of the judgment in the final judgment, after the judgment of the judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment in the final judgment.

RELATOR on the same unlawful judgment judgment: Federal Judge RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA VOTANTE: Federal Judge RODRIGO RIGAMONTE FONSECA VOTANTE: Federal Judge FLAVIA HEINE PEIXOTO VOTANTE: Federal Judge NEIAN MILHOMEM CRUZ VOTANTE: Federal Judge LILIAN OLIVEIRA OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge LILIAN OLIVEIRA OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge OF THE COSTA TOURINHO VOTANHO VOTANTE: Federal Judge of the